wiki/modding/README.md, before:

# Making Mods

## Injecting Mods
Beat Saber _**does not**_ have built in mod support.

Instead, most mods within the mod installer rely on
[BSIPA (Beat Saber Illusion Plugin Architecture)](https://github.com/nike4613/BeatSaber-IPA-Reloaded/)
to inject plugins into the game, as well as providing some useful tools for us modders.

For those of you who prefer [BepInEx](https://github.com/BepInEx/BepInEx) over either of these options, Bepis has created
a loader for BSIPA plugins, available [here](https://github.com/BepInEx/BepInEx.BSIPA.Loader). As for developing Beat Saber
plugins with the BepInEx plugin API, a generic guide exists on their
[documentation site](https://bepinex.github.io/bepinex_docs/v5.0/articles/dev_guide/plugin_tutorial/index.html),
but other than that you're kinda on your own.

## Project Setup
If you are interested in creating a Beat Saber mod, but do not have a template or Visual Studio template set up,
[follow the Intro guide to get your project all set up](./intro.md).

### Ready to go?
Check out the [links below](#other-links) for documentation relating to Unity and related tooling. If you have any questions,
the best place to ask is in the `#pc-mod-dev` channel on the [BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods)

## Launch args
Helpful launch arguments that will make modding / debugging easier.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
| Argument&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Description |
| - | :- |
| `--verbose`  | Enables the output log window for IPA. This will show the debug console that mods use.  |
| `fpfc` | "First Person Flying Controller"<br /><br />This allows you to use WASD and the mouse to navigate around the menu in game. This makes testing much easier, because you don't have to put on your headset! |
| `-vrmode oculus` | If you are running Beat Saber through Steam, this allows you to play the game on an Oculus headset. |
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

## Other Links

* [BeatMods](https://beatmods.com)
* [BeatMods Approval Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15RBVesZdS-U94AvesJ2DJqcnAtgh9E2PZOcbjrQle5Y/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Unity Scripting API](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/index.html)
* [dnSpy](https://github.com/0xd4d/dnSpy)
* [Harmony](https://github.com/pardeike/Harmony)
* [Beat Saber IPA](https://bsmg.github.io/BeatSaber-IPA-Reloaded/)

Commit message:

Add warning stating that this page is for PC modding.
A few people have gotten confused. Hopefully this clears things up.

wiki/modding/README.md, after:

# Making Mods

:::warning This guide is for the creation of PC mods, for infomation on how to create quest mods, see the [Beat Saber Quest Modding Guide](https://bsqmg.cal117.me/)

You can also ask for help in the `#quest-mod-dev` channel on the [BSMG disccord.](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) :::

## Injecting Mods
Beat Saber _**does not**_ have built in mod support.

Instead, most mods within the mod installer rely on
[BSIPA (Beat Saber Illusion Plugin Architecture)](https://github.com/nike4613/BeatSaber-IPA-Reloaded/)
to inject plugins into the game, as well as providing some useful tools for us modders.

For those of you who prefer [BepInEx](https://github.com/BepInEx/BepInEx) over either of these options, Bepis has created
a loader for BSIPA plugins, available [here](https://github.com/BepInEx/BepInEx.BSIPA.Loader). As for developing Beat Saber
plugins with the BepInEx plugin API, a generic guide exists on their
[documentation site](https://bepinex.github.io/bepinex_docs/v5.0/articles/dev_guide/plugin_tutorial/index.html),
but other than that you're kinda on your own.

## Project Setup
If you are interested in creating a Beat Saber mod, but do not have a template or Visual Studio template set up,
[follow the Intro guide to get your project all set up](./intro.md).

### Ready to go?
Check out the [links below](#other-links) for documentation relating to Unity and related tooling. If you have any questions,
the best place to ask is in the `#pc-mod-dev` channel on the [BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods)

## Launch args
Helpful launch arguments that will make modding / debugging easier.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
| Argument&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | Description |
| - | :- |
| `--verbose`  | Enables the output log window for IPA. This will show the debug console that mods use.  |
| `fpfc` | "First Person Flying Controller"<br /><br />This allows you to use WASD and the mouse to navigate around the menu in game. This makes testing much easier, because you don't have to put on your headset! |
| `-vrmode oculus` | If you are running Beat Saber through Steam, this allows you to play the game on an Oculus headset. |
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

## Other Links

* [BeatMods](https://beatmods.com)
* [BeatMods Approval Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15RBVesZdS-U94AvesJ2DJqcnAtgh9E2PZOcbjrQle5Y/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Unity Scripting API](https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/index.html)
* [dnSpy](https://github.com/0xd4d/dnSpy)
* [Harmony](https://github.com/pardeike/Harmony)
* [Beat Saber IPA](https://bsmg.github.io/BeatSaber-IPA-Reloaded/)
