wiki/models/avatars-guide.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
prev: ./sabers-guide.md
next: ./platforms-guide.md
description: Assistant's Guide to adding Full Body Avatars to Beat Saber!
---
# Custom Avatars Guide
_Assistant's Guide to adding Full Body Avatars to Beat Saber._

## Introduction
Alright boys and girls, your favorite Assistant is going to teach you how to take
your favorite anime models and put them into 3D Osu!

I will be assuming you have a basic grasp of blender and Unity and have made avatars for VRChat in the past. If not there's
[plenty of tutorials out there](http://bfy.tw/IQ0F). This guide will start at the point when you're ready to export a fbx
file to use on Unity. There is [a video](#videos) of me creating an avatar if you'd like something to follow along with.
It is narrated by Megalon since a freak accident took away my ability to speak and edit videos. CC's coming soon™.

## Shape Keys: Turning Bad Touch into Good Touch
So you don't want your waifu to hold the sabers through the sheer power of plot armor and sticky hands, but she doesn't
have a fist shape key. To add one, we'll be using blender again, now I know I said we were ready to export, but I'm like
12 and have the attention span of

We'll be using the CATS blender plugin, If you don't have it installed, download it [here](https://github.com/michaeldegroot/cats-blender-plugin/releases).

Under the CATS menu.

![CATS menu](~@images/models/avatars/startpose.png)

Click Start Pose Mode.

![Start pose 2](~@images/models/avatars/startpose2.png)

With pose mode enabled, you'll be able to position the bones to your liking. `Right Click` to select the bones,
use `SHIFT` to select multiple.

![Posing](~@images/models/avatars/pose.gif)

When you've gotten the desired look, click `Pose To Shape Key`. This will create a shape key for closing a fist.

![Pose to shape key](~@images/models/avatars/posetoshapekey.png)

To finish up, hit `w` and click Clear User Transforms (All), this will reset the hand's pose.

![Clear transforms](~@images/models/avatars/cleartransforms.png)

Then hit Stop Pose Mode.

![Stop pose mode](~@images/models/avatars/stoppose.png)

## To Unity and Beyond
Download and extract the `BeatSaberCustomAvatars-vx.x.x-UnityProject.zip` from the [Custom Avatars Release](https://github.com/nicoco007/BeatSaberCustomAvatars/releases/latest).
This zip contains a barebones Unity project to get started with creating avatars. You will need to copy `FinalIK.dll`
 and `DynamicBone.dll` from the game's installation folder into the `Assets\Libraries` folder of the extracted zip
 **before opening the project in Unity** to get it working.

::: danger IMPORTANT
Use Unity version
[2018.1.6f1](https://download.unity3d.com/download_unity/57cc34175ccf/Windows64EditorInstaller/UnitySetup64-2018.1.6f1.exe).
And make sure to follow [these instructions](#unity-2018).
:::

Import the fbx file with your waifu, and create an empty game object with her name, but don't drag her in yet.

![Assets](~@images/models/avatars/assets.png)

![Hierarchy](~@images/models/avatars/hierarchy.png)

Next step will be to click on the Avatar asset, and set its rig as humanoid, and then configure it. If you've worked with
VRChat avatars before this should sound familiar, so I'll skip the configuration, which basically is just match the body
parts and enforce T-Pose. After doing that you can drag your Avatar into the GameObject that you created before.

![Humanoid](~@images/models/avatars/humanoid.png)

Create 4 Empty GameObjects in the root object, and name them `Head`, `Body`, `LeftHand`, and `RightHand`.

You want to position `Head` where you want your camera to be, similar to VRChat's white dot.

For both `LeftHand` and `RightHand`, you want to position them on your Avatar's hands like if they were your controllers.
The positive Y axis points up from the controller, so you want that to point towards your wrists.

![Head object](~@images/models/avatars/headobject.png)

![Left hand](~@images/models/avatars/LeftHand.png)

![Gameobjects](~@images/models/avatars/gameobjects.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
Make sure you have your GameObjects where you want them, after the next step their position is final.
:::

We're ready to start the fun! Navigate the hierarchy of the Armature until you reach the Head, select it and right-click
and Create Empty, then drag it into the `Head` we created and name it `HeadTarget`. That process will make sure that it's
in the correct place.

![Head](~@images/models/avatars/head.png)

Do the same with your wrists, placing them into the `LeftHand` and `RightHand`, and name them `LeftHandTarget` and
`RightHandTarget` respectively. It should look something like this.

![Targets](~@images/models/avatars/targets.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
If you need to move `Head`, `LeftHand`, or `RightHand` AFTER you've already placed the targets, you'll need to delete
the targets and add them again after you're done moving them.
:::

Select your Avatar, the one that is blue in my previous image, and add some components to it: First you'll need `VR IK` and
`IK Manager`, or you can use `IK Manager Advanced` if you want to change the IK settings. Add the 3 targets you just created
to the `IK Manager` of your choice.

![Targets 2](~@images/models/avatars/targets2.png)

![Targets 3](~@images/models/avatars/targets3.png)

You should have a fully functional avatar for Beat Saber, but don't hit that export button yet, we still need to give it
the finishing touches. Once you're done testing out the Avatar in Play mode and IK is working, you'll have to set all your
materials to use one of the included Beat Saber shaders, if you've atlased your materials, great, you get to skip the
painstakingly arduous job of retexturing each one of them, because for some reason those shaders don't take the same texture
parameter as most other shaders.

![Materials](~@images/models/avatars/materials.png)

You might have noticed that your avatar crosses its legs like it needs to pee when it crouches down. You might have played
around with the IK options and noticed that changing the `Swivel Offset` on the legs fixes this in unity, but the changes
don't appear in the game. Now you can fix that by using `IK Manager Advanced`. Adding the swivel offsets to the
`IK Manager Advanced` component will make those settings work in the game. If you haven't played around with those before,
they change the angle at which the knees bend. A positive value moves the knees to the right, and a negative value moves
them to the left, from the avatar's perspective.

![Leg fix](~@images/models/avatars/legsfix.png)

You can now go ahead and do cosmetic stuff to your avatar, add dynamic bones to your liking, but **use the included scripts**.
You can also curl your waifu's fingers so she's actually holding the sabers, I used Shape Keys for that. Avatars are
now visible in first person view. You can toggle it using the `Home` key on your keyboard. If you want to be able to
see your avatar in first person, but don't want to see the inside of your head, you can use the `First Person Exclusion`
component to exclude your head's mesh, note that it will have to be a separate mesh for this to work. If you have double
vision of your avatar, like if you were cross eyed, you need to change a setting.
Go to `Edit` -> `Project Settings` -> `Player`. On the window that appears click on `XR Settings`,
Make sure that `Virtual Reality Supported` is turned on, and that `Stereo Rendering Method` is set to `Single Pass`.

![Player](~@images/models/avatars/player.png)

![Single pass](~@images/models/avatars/singlepass.png)

## Final Stretch
Select the parent to your avatar, the upmost item in the hierarchy, and add 2 components to it, `Avatar Descriptor` and
`Event Manager`. Fill out the Avatar Descriptor, and you can leave Event Manager empty, if you knew how to use it you
would probably not be reading this.

![Avatar](~@images/models/avatars/avatar.png)

To add a `Cover Image` you'll need to add an image and set it as a `Sprite (2D and UI)`,
you can then drag it into the `Avatar Descriptor`.

![Cover](~@images/models/avatars/cover.png)

![Cover sprite](~@images/models/avatars/cover-sprite.png)

The last thing to do is export the avatar. Go to `Window` -> `Avatar Exporter`, and you should see something like this.
Just click on the Export button, and save it to the CustomAvatars folder, and you're golden.

![Exporter](~@images/models/avatars/exporter.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
If you're re-exporting an avatar make sure to delete the previous file, it will not overwrite it.
:::

::: tip NOTE
Once you've got your avatar exported, [upload them to ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com)
if you want to share it with the world.
:::

Now go weeb out to the Nico Nico Nii remix as your waifu or something. Assistant out.

## Animations: It's Alive
For the purpose of this guide an animation will be considered any behavior that is not directly caused by the IK scripts
or the movements of the HMD and controllers. The most basic form of animations involve what you're probably familiar with,
`Animation` files, an `Animator Component`, its corresponding `Animation Controller`, and `Events`. First we need to place
an `Animator` component, and we have to be very particular about how we do this. Just playing it on the avatar object will
cause it to conflict with the IK scripts, so we have two options: We can set the animation layer in the `Animation Controller`
to `Additive Blending`, which will allow us to place the `Animator Component` on the avatar object.

![Layers](~@images/models/avatars/layers.png)

The second way, and my prefered method, is to leave the layer as `Override Blending` and place the `Animator Component`
on an object that isn't affected directly by the IK script, nor is a parent to any such object. This is an example of
where you can safetly place the `Animator Component`, and where you can't.

![Animations](~@images/models/avatars/Animations.png)

Once you have your `Animator Component` and its respective `Animation Controller` you'll need to add `Animation` files to
it, and make sure to create `Trigger Parameters`, set transitions between states, and set the `Trigger Parameters` to set
off those transitions. For animations of set duration you can create a single `Trigger Parameters` to start the animation,
and leave the transition back empty, but for animations that you want to hold for an arbritrary amount of time you'll want
to create a `Trigger Parameters` to start the animation, another to end it, and set the animtion to looping.

![Triggers](~@images/models/avatars/triggers.png)

Now that you have an animation layer with transitions and triggers, you'll need to set up events to fire them. First
you'll want to create an `Event Manager` component on the root object. This provides some events that you can use,
and also allows other event scripts to work. The vanilla CustomAvatar.dll also comes with the
`Combo Reached Event` and `Every Nth Combo Filter`.

![Event Manager](~@images/models/avatars/eventmanager.png)

![Event Manager](~@images/models/avatars/comboevents.png)

Once you've selected which event you want to use for your animation, you need to select the Object that contains the
`Animator Component`, then select `Animator -> SetTrigger (string)` as the function, and type the name of your
`Trigger Parameter` in the text field.

![Empty event](~@images/models/avatars/emptyevent.png)

![Object event](~@images/models/avatars/objectevent.png)

![Function event](~@images/models/avatars/functionevent.png)

![Full event](~@images/models/avatars/fullevent.png)

Once the event is setup, when it fires it will activate the trigger, which will activate the transition on your
`Animation Controller`. If you want to setup controller events similar to VRChat gestures, you'll want to set a trigger
to activate your transition on a press event, and another for the deactivation transition on a release event.

### Events
We've seen how to use events to make animations happen, but there's *a lot* more that you can do with them. First lets
look at what an event looks like. There's 4 parts to an event that you have to worry about. First, what triggers the event.
It can be any of the things in the `Event Manager` component, or the combo components, or even from a third party plugin,
like `CustomKeyEvents`. Second, you need to drag a game object into the field that says `None (Object)`, whatever object
you pick will be the one affected by the trigger. Third, you have to select which function from that game object you want
to use. Click on the field that says `No Function` and pick the function you want the event to use. Here you will see all
the public methods with at most 1 argument that are available to the object or its components. Finally, under the function
you just picked you will be able to set the argument to that function, if any.

We saw how to do this with the animator component on the previous section, but you can use this for many other things
besides triggering events. You can make it play audio clips using the `PlayOneShot` function from an `Audio Source` component.
You can start particle systems, or make them emit a certain number of particles. You can turn objects on and off.
You can edit materials. There's endless posibilities, so go drag some objects in and see what you can get out of them.

### CustomKeyEvents
This plugin allows you to set event triggers to controller actions. You will need `CustomKeyEvents.dll (Unity Asset)`
in your Unity project in order to add those to your avatar. The user will also need `CustomKeyEvents.dll` in their
`Plugins` folder for them to work in game.

## Full Body Tracking: Ra Ra Rasputin~
If you want to create an avatar with `Full Body Tracking` support you'll have to add 3 more Objects, one for each of the
`Vive Trackers` in your feet and hip. Place those Objects in the same level you placed the ones for the hands,
and name them `LeftLeg`, `RightLeg`, and `Pelvis`.

![Full body objects](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyobjects.png)

These Objects work exactly the same way as the hand objects, you want to position them on the Avatar like they're positioned
physically on your body. Make sure to pay attention to the orientation of the tracker.

![Tracker object](~@images/models/avatars/trackerobject.png)

![Tracker axis](~@images/models/avatars/trackeraxis.png)

Now that they're in the correct place, you'll want to create the targets by navigating the Armature to the feet and pelvis
bones, the ones the IK calls `Left Foot`, `Right Foot`, and `Pelvis`. Right click on those bones and select `Create Empty`.
An Object called `GameObject` will appear as a child to the bones, you want to rename them into `LeftLegTarget`, `RightLegTarget`,
and `PelvisTarget` and drag them into `LeftLeg`, `RightLeg`, and `Pelvis` respectively.

Once complete your hierarchy should look something like this:

![Full body hierarchy](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyhierarchy.png)

Now that all your Objects and Targets are ready, you'll have to add them to the `IK Manager Advanced` script.
You also want to set the values of both leg's and pelvis' `Position Weight` and `Rotation Weight` closer to `1`,
but feel free to experiment with the values.

![Full body IK Manager](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyIKmanager.png)

## Unity 2018

So, you're probably wonder why now I'm telling you to use Unity 2018.1.6f1, when previously we said you shouldn't use any
2018 version. Well, the game has changed, figuratively, and literally. Beat Saber now uses Unity 2018 instead of Unity 2017,
and as such the avatars need to be created with Unity 2018 to work correctly. You will need to set the
`Scripting Runtime Version` to `.NET 4.x Equivalent` if it isn't already. For that you need to go to
`Edit -> Project Settings -> Player` and in the window that appears open the `Other Settings` tab,
and scroll down to the `Configuration` section.

![Script runtime](~@images/models/avatars/scriptruntime.png)

You're going to need to use the new version of `CustomAvatar.dll` in your Unity project. Delete the old one if you have it;
this project contains the correct one—and replace it with this one. Preferably in the assets folder while Unity isn't running.
You might have to re-add your components. If the asset doesn't have the arrow that lets you see all the scripts,
right click it and select `Reimport`.

![New asset](~@images/models/avatars/newasset.png)

## FAQ: TL;DR:RTFM

### PureDark's avatar plugin?
PureDark's plugin has been integrated into the main plugin. A few things have changed. `Make Children Visible` is no
longer needed, first person view is enabled by default, and is toggleable with the `Home` key on your keyboard. To add
exclusions to the first person view, you can use the `First Person Exclusion` component. `Avatar VRIK Fix` is now called
`IK Manager Advanced`, and since it's all in one plugin it's no longer needed to provide cross compatiblity, so only one
of either `IK Manager` or `IK Manager Advanced` is needed. The controller events components were removed, and will appear
on their own plugin.

### I can't find the IK scripts or the Avatar exporter
Make sure you're using Unity 2018.1.6f1, not 5.6.3p1, not 2017, and you've followed these directions. If your
CustomAvatar.dll asset doesn't have the arrow that you click to show the scripts, try deleting and re-importing
the CustomAvatar.dll Asset to Unity.

### I can export avatars but they're invisible in game. ↵
You can toggle first person view by pressing `Home`. If they're invisible in your desktop window, make sure that you used
the correct Beat Saber shaders, and Unity 2018.1.6f1.

### Only my avatars are T-Posed
Well I'm very sorry, but this means that you did something wrong while creating your avatar. There's no way to know just
what you did wrong, because so many things have the same effect. The only advice we can give you is make sure that you
followed the guides exactly, and maybe watch a video to follow along.

## Videos
Here is a video of me making an avatar, narrated by Megalon. [5:57]

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iBEfl_v71Nw' />

::: warning DISCLAIMER
I know nothing about making avatars or using either Unity or Blender, I just threw shit at the wall blindly for 3 days
and this is what stuck. But until someone who actually knows what they're doing makes a guide, this is all there is.
:::

## ♥ Special Thanks

* **ikeiwa**, for creating this fantastic plugin.
* **xyonico**, for rewriting this fantastic plugin.
* **PureDark**, for making the fantastic plugin that fixes many issues.
* **Emma**, for making the first guide that led me to figuring this out, and helping with this one.
* **Megalon**, for providing the ASMR for the video.
* **Ella**, for making fun of me until I got gud, helping with the website design, parts of this guide,
  and putting up with all my dumb questions.

Commit message:

Make some changes to avatars guide to reduce confusion

wiki/models/avatars-guide.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
prev: ./sabers-guide.md
next: ./platforms-guide.md
description: Assistant's Guide to adding Full Body Avatars to Beat Saber!
---
# Custom Avatars Guide
_Assistant's Guide to adding Full Body Avatars to Beat Saber._

::: danger
This guide may have outdated fragments. If you run into issues don't be afraid to ask in the `#pc-3d-modeling` channel
 in the [BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods)
:::

## Introduction
Alright boys and girls, your favorite Assistant is going to teach you how to take
your favorite anime models and put them into 3D Osu!

I will be assuming you have a basic grasp of blender and Unity and have made avatars for VRChat in the past. If not there's
[plenty of tutorials out there](http://bfy.tw/IQ0F). This guide will start at the point when you're ready to export a fbx
file to use on Unity. There is [a video](#videos) of me creating an avatar if you'd like something to follow along with.
It is narrated by Megalon since a freak accident took away my ability to speak and edit videos. CC's coming soon™.

## Shape Keys: Turning Bad Touch into Good Touch
So you don't want your waifu to hold the sabers through the sheer power of plot armor and sticky hands, but she doesn't
have a fist shape key. To add one, we'll be using blender again, now I know I said we were ready to export, but I'm like
12 and have the attention span of

We'll be using the CATS blender plugin, If you don't have it installed, download it [here](https://github.com/michaeldegroot/cats-blender-plugin/releases).

Under the CATS menu.

![CATS menu](~@images/models/avatars/startpose.png)

Click Start Pose Mode.

![Start pose 2](~@images/models/avatars/startpose2.png)

With pose mode enabled, you'll be able to position the bones to your liking. `Right Click` to select the bones,
use `SHIFT` to select multiple.

![Posing](~@images/models/avatars/pose.gif)

When you've gotten the desired look, click `Pose To Shape Key`. This will create a shape key for closing a fist.

![Pose to shape key](~@images/models/avatars/posetoshapekey.png)

To finish up, hit `w` and click Clear User Transforms (All), this will reset the hand's pose.

![Clear transforms](~@images/models/avatars/cleartransforms.png)

Then hit Stop Pose Mode.

![Stop pose mode](~@images/models/avatars/stoppose.png)

## To Unity and Beyond
Download and extract the `BeatSaberCustomAvatars-vx.x.x-UnityProject.zip` from the [Custom Avatars Release](https://github.com/nicoco007/BeatSaberCustomAvatars/releases/latest).
This zip contains a barebones Unity project to get started with creating avatars. You will need to copy `FinalIK.dll`
 and `DynamicBone.dll` from the game's installation folder into the `Assets\Libraries` folder of the extracted zip
 **before opening the project in Unity** to get it working.

::: danger IMPORTANT CHECKLIST

* Use Unity version
[2019.3.15f1](https://download.unity3d.com/download_unity/59ff3e03856d/Windows64EditorInstaller/UnitySetup64-2019.3.15f1.exe).
* Make sure to you have `FinalIK.dll` and `DynamicBone.dll` from the game's installation folder in the `Assets\Libraries`
folder of the extracted zip **before opening the project in Unity**.
* Follow [these instructions](#unity-2019).
:::

Import the fbx file with your waifu, and create an empty game object with her name, but don't drag her in yet.

![Assets](~@images/models/avatars/assets.png)

![Hierarchy](~@images/models/avatars/hierarchy.png)

Next step will be to click on the Avatar asset, and set its rig as humanoid, and then configure it. If you've worked with
VRChat avatars before this should sound familiar, so I'll skip the configuration, which basically is just match the body
parts and enforce T-Pose. After doing that you can drag your Avatar into the GameObject that you created before.

![Humanoid](~@images/models/avatars/humanoid.png)

Create 4 Empty GameObjects in the root object, and name them `Head`, `Body`, `LeftHand`, and `RightHand`.

You want to position `Head` where you want your camera to be, similar to VRChat's white dot.

For both `LeftHand` and `RightHand`, you want to position them on your Avatar's hands like if they were your controllers.
The positive Y axis points up from the controller, so you want that to point towards your wrists.

![Head object](~@images/models/avatars/headobject.png)

![Left hand](~@images/models/avatars/LeftHand.png)

![Gameobjects](~@images/models/avatars/gameobjects.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
Make sure you have your GameObjects where you want them, after the next step their position is final.
:::

We're ready to start the fun! Navigate the hierarchy of the Armature until you reach the Head, select it and right-click
and Create Empty, then drag it into the `Head` we created and name it `HeadTarget`. That process will make sure that it's
in the correct place.

![Head](~@images/models/avatars/head.png)

Do the same with your wrists, placing them into the `LeftHand` and `RightHand`, and name them `LeftHandTarget` and
`RightHandTarget` respectively. It should look something like this.

![Targets](~@images/models/avatars/targets.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
If you need to move `Head`, `LeftHand`, or `RightHand` AFTER you've already placed the targets, you'll need to delete
the targets and add them again after you're done moving them.
:::

Select your Avatar, the one that is blue in my previous image, and add some components to it: First you'll need `VR IK` and
`IK Manager`, or you can use `IK Manager Advanced` if you want to change the IK settings. Add the 3 targets you just created
to the `IK Manager` of your choice.

![Targets 2](~@images/models/avatars/targets2.png)

![Targets 3](~@images/models/avatars/targets3.png)

You should have a fully functional avatar for Beat Saber, but don't hit that export button yet, we still need to give it
the finishing touches. Once you're done testing out the Avatar in Play mode and IK is working, you'll have to set all your
materials to use one of the included Beat Saber shaders, if you've atlased your materials, great, you get to skip the
painstakingly arduous job of retexturing each one of them, because for some reason those shaders don't take the same texture
parameter as most other shaders.

![Materials](~@images/models/avatars/materials.png)

You might have noticed that your avatar crosses its legs like it needs to pee when it crouches down. You might have played
around with the IK options and noticed that changing the `Swivel Offset` on the legs fixes this in unity, but the changes
don't appear in the game. Now you can fix that by using `IK Manager Advanced`. Adding the swivel offsets to the
`IK Manager Advanced` component will make those settings work in the game. If you haven't played around with those before,
they change the angle at which the knees bend. A positive value moves the knees to the right, and a negative value moves
them to the left, from the avatar's perspective.

![Leg fix](~@images/models/avatars/legsfix.png)

You can now go ahead and do cosmetic stuff to your avatar, add dynamic bones to your liking, but **use the included scripts**.
You can also curl your waifu's fingers so she's actually holding the sabers, I used Shape Keys for that. Avatars are
now visible in first person view. You can toggle it using the `Home` key on your keyboard. If you want to be able to
see your avatar in first person, but don't want to see the inside of your head, you can use the `First Person Exclusion`
component to exclude your head's mesh, note that it will have to be a separate mesh for this to work. If you have double
vision of your avatar, like if you were cross eyed, you need to change a setting.
Go to `Edit` -> `Project Settings` -> `Player`. On the window that appears click on `XR Settings`,
Make sure that `Virtual Reality Supported` is turned on, and that `Stereo Rendering Method` is set to `Single Pass`.

![Player](~@images/models/avatars/player.png)

![Single pass](~@images/models/avatars/singlepass.png)

## Final Stretch
Select the parent to your avatar, the upmost item in the hierarchy, and add 2 components to it, `Avatar Descriptor` and
`Event Manager`. Fill out the Avatar Descriptor, and you can leave Event Manager empty, if you knew how to use it you
would probably not be reading this.

![Avatar](~@images/models/avatars/avatar.png)

To add a `Cover Image` you'll need to add an image and set it as a `Sprite (2D and UI)`,
you can then drag it into the `Avatar Descriptor`.

![Cover](~@images/models/avatars/cover.png)

![Cover sprite](~@images/models/avatars/cover-sprite.png)

The last thing to do is export the avatar. Go to `Window` -> `Avatar Exporter`, and you should see something like this.
Just click on the Export button, and save it to the CustomAvatars folder, and you're golden.

![Exporter](~@images/models/avatars/exporter.png)

::: danger IMPORTANT
If you're re-exporting an avatar make sure to delete the previous file, it will not overwrite it.
:::

::: tip NOTE
Once you've got your avatar exported, [upload them to ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com)
if you want to share it with the world.
:::

Now go weeb out to the Nico Nico Nii remix as your waifu or something. Assistant out.

## Animations: It's Alive
For the purpose of this guide an animation will be considered any behavior that is not directly caused by the IK scripts
or the movements of the HMD and controllers. The most basic form of animations involve what you're probably familiar with,
`Animation` files, an `Animator Component`, its corresponding `Animation Controller`, and `Events`. First we need to place
an `Animator` component, and we have to be very particular about how we do this. Just playing it on the avatar object will
cause it to conflict with the IK scripts, so we have two options: We can set the animation layer in the `Animation Controller`
to `Additive Blending`, which will allow us to place the `Animator Component` on the avatar object.

![Layers](~@images/models/avatars/layers.png)

The second way, and my prefered method, is to leave the layer as `Override Blending` and place the `Animator Component`
on an object that isn't affected directly by the IK script, nor is a parent to any such object. This is an example of
where you can safetly place the `Animator Component`, and where you can't.

![Animations](~@images/models/avatars/Animations.png)

Once you have your `Animator Component` and its respective `Animation Controller` you'll need to add `Animation` files to
it, and make sure to create `Trigger Parameters`, set transitions between states, and set the `Trigger Parameters` to set
off those transitions. For animations of set duration you can create a single `Trigger Parameters` to start the animation,
and leave the transition back empty, but for animations that you want to hold for an arbritrary amount of time you'll want
to create a `Trigger Parameters` to start the animation, another to end it, and set the animtion to looping.

![Triggers](~@images/models/avatars/triggers.png)

Now that you have an animation layer with transitions and triggers, you'll need to set up events to fire them. First
you'll want to create an `Event Manager` component on the root object. This provides some events that you can use,
and also allows other event scripts to work. The vanilla CustomAvatar.dll also comes with the
`Combo Reached Event` and `Every Nth Combo Filter`.

![Event Manager](~@images/models/avatars/eventmanager.png)

![Event Manager](~@images/models/avatars/comboevents.png)

Once you've selected which event you want to use for your animation, you need to select the Object that contains the
`Animator Component`, then select `Animator -> SetTrigger (string)` as the function, and type the name of your
`Trigger Parameter` in the text field.

![Empty event](~@images/models/avatars/emptyevent.png)

![Object event](~@images/models/avatars/objectevent.png)

![Function event](~@images/models/avatars/functionevent.png)

![Full event](~@images/models/avatars/fullevent.png)

Once the event is setup, when it fires it will activate the trigger, which will activate the transition on your
`Animation Controller`. If you want to setup controller events similar to VRChat gestures, you'll want to set a trigger
to activate your transition on a press event, and another for the deactivation transition on a release event.

### Events
We've seen how to use events to make animations happen, but there's *a lot* more that you can do with them. First lets
look at what an event looks like. There's 4 parts to an event that you have to worry about. First, what triggers the event.
It can be any of the things in the `Event Manager` component, or the combo components, or even from a third party plugin,
like `CustomKeyEvents`. Second, you need to drag a game object into the field that says `None (Object)`, whatever object
you pick will be the one affected by the trigger. Third, you have to select which function from that game object you want
to use. Click on the field that says `No Function` and pick the function you want the event to use. Here you will see all
the public methods with at most 1 argument that are available to the object or its components. Finally, under the function
you just picked you will be able to set the argument to that function, if any.

We saw how to do this with the animator component on the previous section, but you can use this for many other things
besides triggering events. You can make it play audio clips using the `PlayOneShot` function from an `Audio Source` component.
You can start particle systems, or make them emit a certain number of particles. You can turn objects on and off.
You can edit materials. There's endless posibilities, so go drag some objects in and see what you can get out of them.

### CustomKeyEvents
This plugin allows you to set event triggers to controller actions. You will need `CustomKeyEvents.dll (Unity Asset)`
in your Unity project in order to add those to your avatar. The user will also need `CustomKeyEvents.dll` in their
`Plugins` folder for them to work in game.

## Full Body Tracking: Ra Ra Rasputin~
If you want to create an avatar with `Full Body Tracking` support you'll have to add 3 more Objects, one for each of the
`Vive Trackers` in your feet and hip. Place those Objects in the same level you placed the ones for the hands,
and name them `LeftLeg`, `RightLeg`, and `Pelvis`.

![Full body objects](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyobjects.png)

These Objects work exactly the same way as the hand objects, you want to position them on the Avatar like they're positioned
physically on your body. Make sure to pay attention to the orientation of the tracker.

![Tracker object](~@images/models/avatars/trackerobject.png)

![Tracker axis](~@images/models/avatars/trackeraxis.png)

Now that they're in the correct place, you'll want to create the targets by navigating the Armature to the feet and pelvis
bones, the ones the IK calls `Left Foot`, `Right Foot`, and `Pelvis`. Right click on those bones and select `Create Empty`.
An Object called `GameObject` will appear as a child to the bones, you want to rename them into `LeftLegTarget`, `RightLegTarget`,
and `PelvisTarget` and drag them into `LeftLeg`, `RightLeg`, and `Pelvis` respectively.

Once complete your hierarchy should look something like this:

![Full body hierarchy](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyhierarchy.png)

Now that all your Objects and Targets are ready, you'll have to add them to the `IK Manager Advanced` script.
You also want to set the values of both leg's and pelvis' `Position Weight` and `Rotation Weight` closer to `1`,
but feel free to experiment with the values.

![Full body IK Manager](~@images/models/avatars/fullbodyIKmanager.png)

## Unity 2019

So, you're probably wonder why now I'm telling you to use Unity 2019.3.15f1, when previously we said you shouldn't use any
2019 version. Well, the game has changed, figuratively, and literally. Beat Saber now uses Unity 2019 instead of Unity 2017
or 2018, and as such the avatars need to be created with Unity 2019 to work correctly. You will need to set the
`Scripting Runtime Version` to `.NET 4.x Equivalent` if it isn't already. For that you need to go to
`Edit -> Project Settings -> Player` and in the window that appears open the `Other Settings` tab,
and scroll down to the `Configuration` section.

![Script runtime](~@images/models/avatars/scriptruntime.png)

You're going to need to use the new version of `CustomAvatar.dll` in your Unity project. Delete the old one if you have it;
this project contains the correct one—and replace it with this one. Preferably in the assets folder while Unity isn't running.
You might have to re-add your components. If the asset doesn't have the arrow that lets you see all the scripts,
right click it and select `Reimport`.

![New asset](~@images/models/avatars/newasset.png)

## FAQ: TL;DR:RTFM

### PureDark's avatar plugin?
PureDark's plugin has been integrated into the main plugin. A few things have changed. `Make Children Visible` is no
longer needed, first person view is enabled by default, and is toggleable with the `Home` key on your keyboard. To add
exclusions to the first person view, you can use the `First Person Exclusion` component. `Avatar VRIK Fix` is now called
`IK Manager Advanced`, and since it's all in one plugin it's no longer needed to provide cross compatiblity, so only one
of either `IK Manager` or `IK Manager Advanced` is needed. The controller events components were removed, and will appear
on their own plugin.

### I can't find the IK scripts or the Avatar exporter
Make sure you're using Unity 2019.3.15f1, not 5.6.3p1, not 2017, and you've followed these directions. If your
CustomAvatar.dll asset doesn't have the arrow that you click to show the scripts, try deleting and re-importing
the CustomAvatar.dll Asset to Unity.

### I can export avatars but they're invisible in game. ↵
You can toggle first person view by pressing `Home`. If they're invisible in your desktop window, make sure that you used
the correct Beat Saber shaders, and Unity 2019.3.15f1.

### Only my avatars are T-Posed
Well I'm very sorry, but this means that you did something wrong while creating your avatar. There's no way to know just
what you did wrong, because so many things have the same effect. The only advice we can give you is make sure that you
followed the guides exactly, and maybe watch a video to follow along.

## Videos
Here is a video of me making an avatar, narrated by Megalon. [5:57]

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iBEfl_v71Nw' />

::: warning DISCLAIMER
I know nothing about making avatars or using either Unity or Blender, I just threw shit at the wall blindly for 3 days
and this is what stuck. But until someone who actually knows what they're doing makes a guide, this is all there is.
:::

## ♥ Special Thanks

* **ikeiwa**, for creating this fantastic plugin.
* **xyonico**, for rewriting this fantastic plugin.
* **PureDark**, for making the fantastic plugin that fixes many issues.
* **Emma**, for making the first guide that led me to figuring this out, and helping with this one.
* **Megalon**, for providing the ASMR for the video.
* **Ella**, for making fun of me until I got gud, helping with the website design, parts of this guide,
  and putting up with all my dumb questions.
