wiki/models/custom-sabers.md, before:

# Custom Sabers

## Installation
:::tip NOTE
Sabers need to be made specifically for Quest or PC and are not interchangeable between the two. You can tell which platform
a saber is for by the file extension. `.saber` files are for PC while Quest uses `.zip` or `.qsaber` files.
:::

### PC Sabers
The latest mod for Custom Sabers is now called Saber Factory,
and can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord
or on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/ToniMacaroni/SaberFactory/releases) for the mod. Put the mod in
[your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md) to install it. Once you've installed it you will see a folder called `CustomSabers`
in [your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md), this is where you should place the `*.saber` files you want to use.

You can download more sabers on [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/).

For those who want a simple custom saber mod, the Custom Sabers mod is still being updated by Nalulululuna, and can be
found [here](https://twitter.com/nalulululuna/status/1493263219485405184).

### Quest Sabers
Custom Sabers for Quest are provided by the Qosmetics mod. The latest version can be found in the
[#quest-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord. Sabers are called `qsabers` and are currently
hosted in the [Qosmetics Community Discord](https://discord.gg/qosmetics).

## Usage

### PC Users
Inside the game in the main menu you will see on the left a `CUSTOM SABERS` or `SABER FACTORY` button under the `Mods` section.
Pressing it will open up the menu you can use to select which sabers you want to use.

### Quest Users
Upload the `.qsaber` file to your Quest using the [BMBF Web Interface](/quest-modding.md#installing-mods).
You can then select which saber is active from the Qosmetics menu in-game.

## Creating Sabers
[MissRaynor's Saber Guide](./sabers-guide.md) is an excellent resource for learning how to make your own sabers.

Commit message:

revise to not fully remove mod assistant option

wiki/models/custom-sabers.md, after:

# Custom Sabers

## Installation
:::tip NOTE
Sabers need to be made specifically for Quest or PC and are not interchangeable between the two. You can tell which platform
a saber is for by the file extension. `.saber` files are for PC while Quest uses `.zip` or `.qsaber` files.
:::

### PC Sabers
The latest mod for Custom Sabers is now called Saber Factory,
and can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord
or in [Mod Assistant](https://github.com/Assistant/ModAssistant). Run Mod Assistant, select the Saber
Factory mod, and click Install.

If it is not available in the above sources, you can visit the [SaberFactory Discord](https://discord.gg/PjD7WcChH3) for
more information or check the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/ToniMacaroni/SaberFactory/releases) for the mod.
Once you have downloaded the mod, put the mod in [your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md) to install it.

Once the mod is installed you will see a folder called `CustomSabers`
in [your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md), this is where you should place the `*.saber` files you want to use.

You can download more sabers on [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/).

For those who want a simple custom saber mod, the Custom Sabers mod is still being updated by Nalulululuna, and can be
found [here](https://twitter.com/nalulululuna/status/1493263219485405184).

### Quest Sabers
Custom Sabers for Quest are provided by the Qosmetics mod. The latest version can be found in the
[#quest-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord. Sabers are called `qsabers` and are currently
hosted in the [Qosmetics Community Discord](https://discord.gg/qosmetics).

## Usage

### PC Users
Inside the game in the main menu you will see on the left a `CUSTOM SABERS` or `SABER FACTORY` button under the `Mods` section.
Pressing it will open up the menu you can use to select which sabers you want to use.

### Quest Users
Upload the `.qsaber` file to your Quest using the [BMBF Web Interface](/quest-modding.md#installing-mods).
You can then select which saber is active from the Qosmetics menu in-game.

## Creating Sabers
[MissRaynor's Saber Guide](./sabers-guide.md) is an excellent resource for learning how to make your own sabers.
