wiki/models/custom-avatars.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: Information on how to get and use custom avatars in-game.
---

# Custom Avatars

## Installation

:::warning
Custom Avatars is a PC only mod.
:::

The latest Custom Avatar mod can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord
or in [Mod Assistant](https://github.com/Assistant/ModAssistant). Once installed you should see a file called `CustomAvatar.dll`
inside your `Plugins` folder. You should also see a folder called `CustomAvatars` in
[your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md) — this is where you will be placing the `*.avatar` files you want to use.

You can download more avatars on [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Avatars/).

## Usage

Inside the game in the main menu you will see an `AVATARS` button to the left of the main menu. Pressing it will open up
the menu you can use to select which avatar you want to use. There's also additional settings you can change, such as
avatar scaling and if the avatar is visible in first person.

::: warning NOTE

- Avatars are not selected by default. Make sure to go into the right menu and switch to an avatar if none appear at first.
- Some avatars were not made with first person view in mind, so they might block your vision if enabled.
  :::

## Creating Avatars

[Assistant's Avatar Guide](./avatars-guide.md) is a good resource for learning how to make your own avatar.

The guide includes a [short video narrated by Megalon](./avatars-guide.md#videos), however it is intended to be an overview
and you should watch it in addition to reading the guide, not lieu of.

Commit message:

Update model install guides and add BSManager to Where to find models

wiki/models/custom-avatars.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: Information on how to get and use custom avatars in-game.
---

# Custom Avatars

## Installation

:::warning
Custom Avatars is a PC only mod.
:::

The latest Custom Avatar mod can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord
or in your mod installer. Once installed you should see a file called `CustomAvatar.dll`
inside your `Plugins` folder. You should also see a folder called `CustomAvatars` in
[your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md) — this is where you will be placing the `*.avatar` files you want to use.

You can download more avatars on [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Avatars/), [BSManager](https://bsmanager.io),
or the [#pc-models channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG Discord.

## Usage

Inside the game in the main menu you will see an `AVATARS` button to the left of the main menu. Pressing it will open up
the menu you can use to select which avatar you want to use. There's also additional settings you can change, such as
avatar scaling and if the avatar is visible in first person.

::: warning NOTE

- Avatars are not selected by default. Make sure to go into the right menu and switch to an avatar if none appear at first.
- Some avatars were not made with first person view in mind, so they might block your vision if enabled.
  :::

## Creating Avatars

[Assistant's Avatar Guide](./avatars-guide.md) is a good resource for learning how to make your own avatar.

The guide includes a [short video narrated by Megalon](./avatars-guide.md#videos), however it is intended to be an overview
and you should watch it in addition to reading the guide, not lieu of.
