wiki/models/custom-notes.md, before:

# Custom Notes
## Installation

The latest Custom Notes plugin can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG discord or in [Mod Assistant](https://github.com/Assistant/ModAssistant).

Once installed, you should see a `CustomNotes` folder in [your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md), with some sample notes installed for you. This folder is also where you will place `*.bloq` files.

You can download more bloqs from [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Bloqs/).

## Usage
Inside the game in the main menu you will see a `CUSTOM NOTES` button at the top left of the Mods menu over by the release notes. Pressing it will open up the menu you can use to select which notes you want to use.

## Creating Custom Notes

[Bobbie's Bloq Guide](/models/notes-guide.html) is a good resource for creating custom notes from an existing model.

Note that this guide does not cover 3D modeling the notes. For that, we recommend looking up some tutorials on [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)!

Commit message:

Content Update
Address more issues raised by translators
Update my own credit
Fix MMA2 controls link in troubleshooting section

wiki/models/custom-notes.md, after:

# Custom Notes
## Installation
:::tip NOTE
Notes need to be made specifically for Quest or PC and are not interchangeable between the two. You can tell which platform a note is for by the file extension. `.bloq` files are for PC while Quest uses `.zip` files. 
:::

### PC Notes
The latest Custom Notes plugin can be found in the [#pc-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG discord or in [Mod Assistant](https://github.com/Assistant/ModAssistant).

Once installed, you should see a `CustomNotes` folder in [your install folder](/faq/install-folder.md), with some sample notes installed for you. This folder is also where you will place `*.bloq` files.

You can download more bloqs from [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Bloqs/).

### Quest Notes
Custom Notes for Quest are provided by the Qosmetics mod. The latest version can be found in the [#quest-mods channel](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) in the BSMG discord. Notes are called `qbloqs` and are currently hosted in the [Qosmetics Community Discord](https://discord.gg/MEBVngG). 

## Usage

### PC Users
Inside the game in the main menu you will see on the left a `CUSTOM NOTES` button under the `Mods` section. Pressing it will open up the menu you can use to select which notes you want to use.

### Quest Users
Upload the note zip file to your Quest using the [BMBF Web Interface](/quest-modding.md#installing-mods). You can then select which note is active under the mods tab in BMBF.

## Creating Custom Notes

[Bobbie's Bloq Guide](/models/notes-guide.html) is a good resource for creating custom notes from an existing model.

Note that this guide does not cover 3D modeling the notes. For that, we recommend looking up some tutorials on [Blender](https://www.blender.org/)!
