wiki/models/index.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: Installation, Usage, and Creation Guides for Model Mods!
---

# 3D Models

All custom model mods were created separately by different people. Each mod has its own dedicated page detailing
installation and usage instructions. These are listed below and in the sidebar.

- [Custom Sabers](./custom-sabers.md)
- [Custom Avatars](./custom-avatars.md)
- [Custom Platforms](./custom-platforms.md)
- [Custom Notes](./custom-notes.md)
- [Custom Walls](./custom-walls.md)

## Where to find models

### ModelSaber

[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/) is the current repository for sabers, avatars, bloqs, and platforms.
It includes preview images, and OneClick&trade; install links.

::: tip NOTE
All models are manually approved before appearing on the site.
Please do not reupload any already existing models to the website.
:::

### Discord

You can also find an uncurated list _(with potentially more items)_ in the `#pc-models` channel on the
[BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) for PC and [Qosmetics Discord](https://discord.gg/qosmetics) for Quest.

## Creating models

Want to learn how to make your own models? Check out one of our guides down below!

- [Custom Sabers Guide](./sabers-guide.md)
- [Custom Avatars Guide](./avatars-guide.md)
- [Custom Platforms Guide](./platforms-guide.md)
- [Custom Notes Guide](./notes-guide.md)
- [Making Quest Models Guide](https://github.com/RedBrumbler/Qosmetics/wiki)

### Migrating models

Have you made models prior to Beat Saber 1.29.4? You may need to migrate your shaders using the [Shader Migration Guide](./shader-migration.md)

Commit message:

Update beta branch images to include new options and update model install guides (#611)
* Update beta branch images to include new options

* Update model install guides and add BSManager to Where to find models

* fix prettier code styling

* fix lint

wiki/models/index.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: Installation, Usage, and Creation Guides for Model Mods!
---

# 3D Models

All custom model mods were created separately by different people. Each mod has its own dedicated page detailing
installation and usage instructions. These are listed below and in the sidebar.

- [Custom Sabers](./custom-sabers.md)
- [Custom Avatars](./custom-avatars.md)
- [Custom Platforms](./custom-platforms.md)
- [Custom Notes](./custom-notes.md)
- [Custom Walls](./custom-walls.md)

## Where to find models

### ModelSaber

[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/) is the current repository for sabers, avatars, bloqs, and platforms.
It includes preview images, and OneClick&trade; install links.

::: tip NOTE
All models are manually approved before appearing on the site.
Please do not reupload any already existing models to the website.
:::

### BSManager

[BSManager](https://bsmanager.io) can install models from [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/). It can install
Avatars, Sabers, Platforms, and Blocks, directly from the app or its OneClick&trade; feature.

### Discord

You can also find an uncurated list _(with potentially more items)_ in the `#pc-models` channel on the
[BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) for PC and [Qosmetics Discord](https://discord.gg/qosmetics) for Quest.

## Creating models

Want to learn how to make your own models? Check out one of our guides down below!

- [Custom Sabers Guide](./sabers-guide.md)
- [Custom Avatars Guide](./avatars-guide.md)
- [Custom Platforms Guide](./platforms-guide.md)
- [Custom Notes Guide](./notes-guide.md)
- [Making Quest Models Guide](https://github.com/RedBrumbler/Qosmetics/wiki)

### Migrating models

Have you made models prior to Beat Saber 1.29.4? You may need to migrate your shaders using the [Shader Migration Guide](./shader-migration.md)
