wiki/models/README.md, before:

---
title: Models
---
# 3D Models
All custom model plugins were created separately by different people. Each mod has its own dedicated page detailing installation and usage instructions. These are listed below and in the sidebar.

* [Custom Sabers](./custom-sabers.md)
* [Custom Avatars](./custom-avatars.md)
* [Custom Platforms](./custom-platforms.md)
* [Custom Notes](./custom-notes.md)
* [Custom Walls](./custom-walls.md)

## Where to find models
### ModelSaber
[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/) is the current repository for sabers, avatars, and platforms.
It includes preview images, and OneClick&trade; install links.

::: tip NOTE
All models are manually approved before appearing on the site.
:::

### Discord
You can also find an uncurated list _(with potentially more items)_ in the following channels on the [BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods).

[#pc-models](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/599741466201423872/)
[#quest-models](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/599740655857827850/)

## Creating models
Want to learn how to make your own models? Check out one of our guides down below!
* [Custom Sabers Guide](./sabers-guide.md)
* [Custom Avatars Guide](./avatars-guide.md)
* [Custom Platforms Guide](./platforms-guide.md)
* [Custom Notes Guide](./notes-guide.md)

Commit message:

Gen Update
- Block Distribution in basic mapping
- Fast/Hyper Wall desc correction
- Add patreon to home page
- remove mod history spreadsheet from home page
- remove direct link to models channels on 3d models home page
- add qosmetics to 3d models homepage 
- update custom sabers unity project download

wiki/models/README.md, after:

---
title: Models
---
# 3D Models
All custom model plugins were created separately by different people. Each mod has its own dedicated page detailing installation and usage instructions. These are listed below and in the sidebar.

* [Custom Sabers](./custom-sabers.md)
* [Custom Avatars](./custom-avatars.md)
* [Custom Platforms](./custom-platforms.md)
* [Custom Notes](./custom-notes.md)
* [Custom Walls](./custom-walls.md)

## Where to find models
### ModelSaber
[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/) is the current repository for sabers, avatars, and platforms.
It includes preview images, and OneClick&trade; install links.

::: tip NOTE
All models are manually approved before appearing on the site.
:::

### Discord
You can also find an uncurated list _(with potentially more items)_ in the `#pc-models` channel on the [BSMG Discord](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods) for PC and [Qosmetics Discord](https://discord.gg/MEBVngG) for Quest.

## Creating models
Want to learn how to make your own models? Check out one of our guides down below!
* [Custom Sabers Guide](./sabers-guide.md)
* [Custom Avatars Guide](./avatars-guide.md)
* [Custom Platforms Guide](./platforms-guide.md)
* [Custom Notes Guide](./notes-guide.md)
