wiki/models/sabers-guide.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: MissRaynor's guide to making Custom Sabers!
---

# Custom Sabers Guide

_MissRaynor's guide to making Custom Sabers._

::: danger
If you're creating models, it's extremely important that you read the [Shader Migration Guide](./shader-migration.md)
to avoid any shader issues
:::

## Intro

Since people are still having trouble with making custom sabers, we think that it's best to update our current tutorial.
Thank you to angeliod0103 for making the previous guide. Additional contributions to this guide made by Bobbie and Mdot.

## Preparation

YOU MUST HAVE:

- Unity [2019.3.15f1](https://unity3d.com/get-unity/download/archive)
  - You need to go to the tab that says `Unity 2019.x` and scroll down to 2019.3.15. This has to be installed with
    [Unity Hub](https://unity3d.com/get-unity/download).
  - Need a guide on how to install? [Check out this Unity guide to Unity Hub.](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/LicensesAndActivation.html)
- [The Custom Saber Unity project.](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/468249466865057802/935252103935434762/Unity2019.3.15-CustomSaber-4.3.0.zip)
- A 3d model file of the saber of your choice. The most common and acceptable file formats are .obj and .fbx files.
  You can download your saber from 3d model hosting/showcase sites like Sketchfab or turbosquid.

Optional:

- 3d modeling software: Blender is a good free option, or 3dsmax if you have a license for it (educational license is fine)
- Image editor: [Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html) or
  [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/downloads/) work if you want to make your own saber texture
- The saber model used in [this tutorial.](https://bs.assistant.moe/Sabers/resources/Tutorial_Saber.zip)

## Setup

Extract the Custom Saber Unity project to your desired location.

### Importing and setting Unity version of the project

![Adding Custom Saber project](/.assets/images/models/sabers/01.png)

The Custom saber project should appear on the list. Make sure the Unity version is correct for the project.

![Checking that the project version is correct](/.assets/images/models/sabers/02.png)

![If the Unity version is incorrect, change this to match the project version.](/.assets/images/models/sabers/02-2.png)

### Opening and setting up the project in the Editor

Open the Custom saber project, it should show up like this:

![Checking that the project shows up correctly](/.assets/images/models/sabers/03.png)

Check if the project is functional by double checking that the `Saber Exporter` shows up in the `Window` tab.

![Checking that project has a saber exporter](/.assets/images/models/sabers/04.png)

![Checking that the saber exporter works properly](/.assets/images/models/sabers/05.png)

The current scene should contain a GameObject called `TemplateSaber`.

![Red circle around TemplateSaber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/06.png)

If it's your first time opening this project, the Unity viewport will be very far away from the saber.
To see the template saber in the viewport, doubleclick on the `TemplateSaber` GameObject.

Click both the `RightSaber` and `LeftSaber` GameObjects and make sure that they have an `Event Manager` component attached.

![Checking that EventManager exists on the RightSaber object](/.assets/images/models/sabers/07.png)

Now try exporting the Template Saber into your `CustomSabers` folder with the Saber Exporter.

![Exporting TemplateSaber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/08.png)

If the Template Saber appears and works properly ingame, setup is complete and you're ready for the next part.

## Modeling

I won't go into detail about making a 3d model. If you don't have already have a model and want to learn how to make one,
you can find tutorials here:

### Blender

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ICBP-7x7Chc' />

### 3DS Max

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzBTcDY3_Q4' />

Once the saber is done, you can export it by choosing File-Export,
choosing the desired file format, and importing it into unity.

::: tip NOTE
OBJ is best used for simple sabers. FBX is best used for complex sabers that have rigging or animations.
:::

![Exporting saber as FBX](/.assets/images/models/sabers/09.png)

::: tip NOTE
You don't have to export both sabers if they both have the exact same shape.
If they're identical, exporting one should be good enough.
:::
::: tip NOTE
Merging meshes that share the same color/glowing attributes will help a LOT in the long run.
:::

## Unity

To import the model into unity, simply drag and drop it into the Assets window.
Afterwards, line the saber up with the TemplateSaber. Video example:

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mphD87zOer4' />

Next, you need to add Beat Saber compatible materials to your sabers.

The custom sabers unity project comes with 4 different beat saber compatible shaders.
Here are the main differences between them:

- Lit glow is lit and has shadows. You can change the direction the light comes from and how strong it is
- Metallic makes the material slightly darker and allows you to add a metallic reflection
- Unlit glow is similar to lit glow but it doesn't have any lighting effects.
- Unlit glow cutout dither is the same as unlit glow but allows you to add transparency to your material.

The materials you use will depend on what traits you're looking for.

::: warning WARNING
Make sure you _ONLY_ use shaders that are compatible with beat saber. If you use a shader that isn't compatible
(the Unity Standard shader, for example) your material will simply show up as white in-game.
:::

::: tip NOTE
For more information on shader compatibility, visit the Advanced Shaders Properties section of this guide.
:::

Video example of applying materials:

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zKFCNJoQOWk' />

You can add a texture to a material by dragging an image file in the texture slot.

![Adding texture to saber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/10.png)

::: tip NOTE
The `Glow` slider modifies how bright the saber glows. Additionally, when the glow is above 0,
that material will be affected by the player's custom colors.
:::

Once you've completed all of this, you can export your saber.
Open up the `Saber Exporter` in the `Window` tab and then fill in the saber's name and author.

![Exporting the saber and adding name + author](/.assets/images/models/sabers/11.png)

Put your sabers in your `CustomSabers` folder and test them out in game. If they look good ingame, you're all done!

::: tip NOTE
**Once you've got your new sabers working**, [upload them to ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Upload/)
if you want to share them with the world.
:::

## Advanced

This section covers things that aren't included in the main tutorial, such as how to add Events and Trails.

Other scripts are contained in `Assets/CustomSaber.dll`. Click on the little arrow to expand it.
![Expanding CustomSaber.dll](/.assets/images/models/sabers/12.png)

### EventManager

This component lets you set up an action when an event condition is met.
This includes when you hit a note, miss a note, when you start a level, etc...

To use it, click on the plus button to create a new event, drag the gameobject performing the action in the slot,
and then choose the desired action.

If you want more information on events, read the [Events](./avatars-guide.md#events) section in the Custom Avatars guide.

![Adding an event](/.assets/images/models/sabers/13.png)

### Every Nth Combo Filter

This component lets you perform an action every N combo. It works the same as the `Event Manager`,
but with the only trigger being every time you hit N combo.

### Custom Trails

This component lets you change the default trail for sabers. For a comprehensive tutorial on how to use custom trails,
check out [MDot's custom trail guide](https://mdotamaan.github.io/BeatSaber-CustomTrailsGuide/).

### Animation

If you want your sabers to play a certain animation, you need to use an `Animator` component.This will allow you to better
manage what animation you're making, in addition to letting you control how the animation transitions/triggers using the
Event Manager. [More information on the animator component can be found in the unity docs here](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-AnimatorController.html).

### Advanced Shader Properties

If you want to modify your shaders to use Custom Colors without having to change the glow,
it is possible to modify them support this.

Add this snippet of code to your shader's `Properties` section. If you have another property named `_Color`,
make sure to remove it!

```hlsl
_Color ("Color", Color) = (1,1,1,1)
[MaterialToggle] _CustomColors("Custom Colors", Float) = 0
```

Now your materials should have a nice `Custom Colors` checkbox instead of custom color
support depending on the currently set glow.

Similarly, if you want to import a non-beatsaber shader to use it on a saber and want it
to display correctly ingame, you need to strip the `Alpha` channel out.

Each shader is different, so there's no universal approach to doing this. If you're not sure
exactly how to do this, feel free to discuss the process in #pc-3d-modeling in the [Beat Saber Modding Group](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods).

## Still Stuck?

Check out this video created by Raz0rBeam and Parapass for a more visual walkthrough.
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqpcNTpzW4A' />

Commit message:

Added a guide for materials (Still in progress)

wiki/models/sabers-guide.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: MissRaynor's guide to making Custom Sabers!
---

# Custom Sabers Guide

_MissRaynor's guide to making Custom Sabers._

::: danger
If you're creating models, it's extremely important that you read the [Shader Migration Guide](./shader-migration.md)
to avoid any shader issues
:::

## Intro

Since people are still having trouble with making custom sabers, we think that it's best to update our current tutorial.
Thank you to angeliod0103 for making the previous guide. Additional contributions to this guide made by Bobbie and Mdot.

## Preparation

YOU MUST HAVE:

- Unity [2019.3.15f1](https://unity3d.com/get-unity/download/archive)
  - You need to go to the tab that says `Unity 2019.x` and scroll down to 2019.3.15. This has to be installed with
    [Unity Hub](https://unity3d.com/get-unity/download).
  - Need a guide on how to install? [Check out this Unity guide to Unity Hub.](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/LicensesAndActivation.html)
- [The Custom Saber Unity project.](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/468249466865057802/935252103935434762/Unity2019.3.15-CustomSaber-4.3.0.zip)
- A 3d model file of the saber of your choice. The most common and acceptable file formats are .obj and .fbx files.
  You can download your saber from 3d model hosting/showcase sites like Sketchfab or turbosquid.

Optional:

- 3d modeling software: Blender is a good free option, or 3dsmax if you have a license for it (educational license is fine)
- Image editor: [Photoshop](https://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop.html) or
  [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/downloads/) work if you want to make your own saber texture
- The saber model used in [this tutorial.](https://bs.assistant.moe/Sabers/resources/Tutorial_Saber.zip)

## Setup

Extract the Custom Saber Unity project to your desired location.

### Importing and setting Unity version of the project

![Adding Custom Saber project](/.assets/images/models/sabers/01.png)

The Custom saber project should appear on the list. Make sure the Unity version is correct for the project.

![Checking that the project version is correct](/.assets/images/models/sabers/02.png)

![If the Unity version is incorrect, change this to match the project version.](/.assets/images/models/sabers/02-2.png)

### Opening and setting up the project in the Editor

Open the Custom saber project, it should show up like this:

![Checking that the project shows up correctly](/.assets/images/models/sabers/03.png)

Check if the project is functional by double checking that the `Saber Exporter` shows up in the `Window` tab.

![Checking that project has a saber exporter](/.assets/images/models/sabers/04.png)

![Checking that the saber exporter works properly](/.assets/images/models/sabers/05.png)

The current scene should contain a GameObject called `TemplateSaber`.

![Red circle around TemplateSaber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/06.png)

If it's your first time opening this project, the Unity viewport will be very far away from the saber.
To see the template saber in the viewport, doubleclick on the `TemplateSaber` GameObject.

Click both the `RightSaber` and `LeftSaber` GameObjects and make sure that they have an `Event Manager` component attached.

![Checking that EventManager exists on the RightSaber object](/.assets/images/models/sabers/07.png)

Now try exporting the Template Saber into your `CustomSabers` folder with the Saber Exporter.

![Exporting TemplateSaber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/08.png)

If the Template Saber appears and works properly ingame, setup is complete and you're ready for the next part.

## Modeling

I won't go into detail about making a 3d model. If you don't have already have a model and want to learn how to make one,
you can find tutorials here:

### Blender

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ICBP-7x7Chc' />

### 3DS Max

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzBTcDY3_Q4' />

Once the saber is done, you can export it by choosing File-Export,
choosing the desired file format, and importing it into unity.

::: tip NOTE
OBJ is best used for simple sabers. FBX is best used for complex sabers that have rigging or animations.
:::

![Exporting saber as FBX](/.assets/images/models/sabers/09.png)

::: tip NOTE
You don't have to export both sabers if they both have the exact same shape.
If they're identical, exporting one should be good enough.
:::
::: tip NOTE
Merging meshes that share the same color/glowing attributes will help a LOT in the long run.
:::

## Unity

To import the model into unity, simply drag and drop it into the Assets window.
Afterwards, line the saber up with the TemplateSaber. Video example:

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mphD87zOer4' />

Next, you need to add Beat Saber compatible materials to your sabers.

The custom sabers unity project comes with 4 different beat saber compatible shaders.
Here are the main differences between them:

- Lit glow is lit and has shadows. You can change the direction the light comes from and how strong it is
- Metallic makes the material slightly darker and allows you to add a metallic reflection
- Unlit glow is similar to lit glow but it doesn't have any lighting effects.
- Unlit glow cutout dither is the same as unlit glow but allows you to add transparency to your material.

The materials you use will depend on what traits you're looking for.

::: warning WARNING
Make sure you _ONLY_ use shaders that are compatible with beat saber. If you use a shader that isn't compatible
(the Unity Standard shader, for example) your material will simply show up as white in-game.
:::

::: tip NOTE
For more information on shader compatibility, visit the Advanced Shaders Properties section of this guide.
:::

Video example of applying materials:

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zKFCNJoQOWk' />

You can add a texture to a material by dragging an image file in the texture slot.

![Adding texture to saber](/.assets/images/models/sabers/10.png)

::: tip NOTE
The `Glow` slider modifies how bright the saber glows. Additionally, when the glow is above 0,
that material will be affected by the player's custom colors.
:::

Once you've completed all of this, you can export your saber.
Open up the `Saber Exporter` in the `Window` tab and then fill in the saber's name and author.

![Exporting the saber and adding name + author](/.assets/images/models/sabers/11.png)

Put your sabers in your `CustomSabers` folder and test them out in game. If they look good ingame, you're all done!

::: tip NOTE
**Once you've got your new sabers working**, [upload them to ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Upload/)
if you want to share them with the world.
:::

## Advanced

This section covers things that aren't included in the main tutorial, such as how to add Events and Trails.

Other scripts are contained in `Assets/CustomSaber.dll`. Click on the little arrow to expand it.
![Expanding CustomSaber.dll](/.assets/images/models/sabers/12.png)

### EventManager

This component lets you set up an action when an event condition is met.
This includes when you hit a note, miss a note, when you start a level, etc...

To use it, click on the plus button to create a new event, drag the gameobject performing the action in the slot,
and then choose the desired action.

If you want more information on events, read the [Events](./avatars-guide.md#events) section in the Custom Avatars guide.

![Adding an event](/.assets/images/models/sabers/13.png)

### Every Nth Combo Filter

This component lets you perform an action every N combo. It works the same as the `Event Manager`,
but with the only trigger being every time you hit N combo.

### Custom Trails

This component lets you change the default trail for sabers. For a comprehensive tutorial on how to use custom trails,
check out [MDot's custom trail guide](https://mdotamaan.github.io/BeatSaber-CustomTrailsGuide/).

### Animation

If you want your sabers to play a certain animation, you need to use an `Animator` component.This will allow you to better
manage what animation you're making, in addition to letting you control how the animation transitions/triggers using the
Event Manager. [More information on the animator component can be found in the unity docs here](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-AnimatorController.html).

### Advanced Shader Properties

If you want to modify your shaders to use Custom Colors without having to change the glow,
it is possible to modify them support this.

Add this snippet of code to your shader's `Properties` section. If you have another property named `_Color`,
make sure to remove it!

```hlsl
_Color ("Color", Color) = (1,1,1,1)
[MaterialToggle] _CustomColors("Custom Colors", Float) = 0
```

Now your materials should have a nice `Custom Colors` checkbox instead of custom color
support depending on the currently set glow.

Similarly, if you want to import a non-beatsaber shader to use it on a saber and want it
to display correctly ingame, you need to strip the `Alpha` channel out.

Each shader is different, so there's no universal approach to doing this. If you're not sure
exactly how to do this, feel free to discuss the process in #pc-3d-modeling in the [Beat Saber Modding Group](https://discord.gg/beatsabermods).

### Materials

For more advanced information on how to make materials, check out [gamesequence's guide to materials](./materials-guide.md).

## Still Stuck?

Check out this video created by Raz0rBeam and Parapass for a more visual walkthrough.
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YqpcNTpzW4A' />
