wiki/communities/community-hub.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: A list of other communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group
---

# Community Hub

A list of other communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group.

## 115 Guild

A community for all accuracy related discussions and events. Whether you want to show off and
compare your skills or seek to improve and learn, everyone is welcome! We also have an accuracy
campaign for earning ranks in the server, how far can you get?

[Discord](https://discord.gg/j8m8cxr)

## Acc Champ Community

We are an Acc focused community that plans to be the new hub for Acc related events, training, and a new ranking system
to help give specific info on each player's strengths and weaknesses in Acc categories. We also hold a custom campaign
for those wanting to test their acc abilities against difficult requirements.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/zd8W4rr)

## BeastSaber

Home of the map curation team and annual mapping awards, BeastSaber aims to be a community hub to connect you to the more
specialized areas of the community!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5NjfSAC) | [Website](https://bsaber.com)

## BeatKhana

We are BeatKhana, a Beat Saber community focused around pushing tournaments forward!
What do we do?

- We update and announce upcoming online tournaments, giving you all the information you need
- Archive old tournaments so you can always find them back
- Provide a place for people to promote their own tournaments and find suitable coordinators and casters
- Host our own tournaments
- Manage a pleasant Beat Saber community

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5NjfSAC)

## BeatLeader

We're fun/competitive community of Beatsaber players who specilize in everything from tips and tricks, the competitive
scene, and programming the tools we use to compete on the global leaderboard.

If you're looking to get a map ranked, wanting to know more about how the ranking system works, or looking to help
improve the leaderboard, come on in. We'd love to have some discussions

[Discord](https://discord.gg/2RG5YVqtG6) | [Website](https://www.beatleader.xyz/)

## Beat Saber Clan Hub

Beat Saber Clan Hub is the hub for all things clan-related. If you want to join or create a clan, this is the server for
you!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/2a89Nmm3PC)

## Beat Saber Commissions

Have a model, map, or mod that you'd like done? Get in contact with the professionals here.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/e4f3WBBVnr)

## Beat Saber League

A League-style tournament for Beat Saber!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/rNmazdz)
| [Website](https://beatsaberleague.com/)

## BeatSaver

The BeatSaver discord provides a centralized location for site support, content reports, bug reports, and developer
discussions related to the main repository of custom maps.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/rjVDapkMmj) | [Website](https://beatsaver.com/)

## BeatTogether Community

Community for the BeatTogether mod. This mod allows crossplay between PC platforms and Quest.
This is a place to discuss the mod and follow its progress and releases!

[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/gezGrFG4tz)

## ChroMapper

ChroMapper is a community maintained map editor for Beat Saber. Built from the ground up, ChroMapper brings Beat Saber
mapping to the next level with new visuals, graphics, and tools.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/mMzzNSh) | [GitHub](https://www.github.com/Caeden117/ChroMapper)

## Cube Community

Beat Saber gameplay spotlights, scoring guides, clip compilations, community events and more!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC)
| [YouTube](https://youtube.com/CubeCommunity)

## KPOP Beat Saber

Hi! We are a small community dedicated to mapping songs for Beat Saber. Bonus points if it's a Kpop song.
But we welcome anyone who is interested in mapping or wants feedback! We also update the server with Kpop
themed sabers and recent Kpop maps.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/c9uHGYP)

## Saber Factory

Welcome to the Saber Factory server! Here you find all resources dedicated to the Saber Factory mod. Get help with the
usage and creation of content, keep in touch with new updates, leave suggestions and much more.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/PjD7WcChH3)

## ScoreSaber

Custom leaderboards and global ranking!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/WpuDMwU)
| [Twitter](https://twitter.com/scoresaber)

## Qosmetics Community

Qosmetics Community is a community focused around providing Custom models, including sabers bloqs and walls to the quest!
We are striving to improve and grow the community of the Quest Custom Content to a whole new level. Come play your way!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/NXnPYEh)

## QuestBoard

We are a quest-focused beat saber community server, dedicated to improving the experience for as many players as we can.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/d6DyW9v)
| [Website](https://www.questmodding.com/)

Commit message:

Adding BSM to the wiki (#557)
* Fix typo in bs-manager GitHub link

* Add BSManager to community hub

* Add image in pc-modding.md

* Update BSM download instructions and fix
typo in BSManager description

* Add BSManager on pc-modding.md for de,fr,ja ab nl

* Update Mod Assistant and BSManager references in
FAQ and index.md

* remove ML translated content

* Address lint issues

* add images and update spelling

---------

Co-authored-by: Bloodcloak <59000966+bloodcloak@users.noreply.github.com>

wiki/communities/community-hub.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: A list of other communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group
---

# Community Hub

A list of other communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group.

## 115 Guild

A community for all accuracy related discussions and events. Whether you want to show off and
compare your skills or seek to improve and learn, everyone is welcome! We also have an accuracy
campaign for earning ranks in the server, how far can you get?

[Discord](https://discord.gg/j8m8cxr)

## Acc Champ Community

We are an Acc focused community that plans to be the new hub for Acc related events, training, and a new ranking system
to help give specific info on each player's strengths and weaknesses in Acc categories. We also hold a custom campaign
for those wanting to test their acc abilities against difficult requirements.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/zd8W4rr)

## BeastSaber

Home of the map curation team and annual mapping awards, BeastSaber aims to be a community hub to connect you to the more
specialized areas of the community!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5NjfSAC) | [Website](https://bsaber.com)

## BeatKhana

We are BeatKhana, a Beat Saber community focused around pushing tournaments forward!
What do we do?

- We update and announce upcoming online tournaments, giving you all the information you need
- Archive old tournaments so you can always find them back
- Provide a place for people to promote their own tournaments and find suitable coordinators and casters
- Host our own tournaments
- Manage a pleasant Beat Saber community

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5NjfSAC)

## BeatLeader

We're fun/competitive community of Beatsaber players who specilize in everything from tips and tricks, the competitive
scene, and programming the tools we use to compete on the global leaderboard.

If you're looking to get a map ranked, wanting to know more about how the ranking system works, or looking to help
improve the leaderboard, come on in. We'd love to have some discussions

[Discord](https://discord.gg/2RG5YVqtG6) | [Website](https://www.beatleader.xyz/)

## Beat Saber Clan Hub

Beat Saber Clan Hub is the hub for all things clan-related. If you want to join or create a clan, this is the server for
you!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/2a89Nmm3PC)

## Beat Saber Commissions

Have a model, map, or mod that you'd like done? Get in contact with the professionals here.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/e4f3WBBVnr)

## Beat Saber League

A League-style tournament for Beat Saber!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/rNmazdz)
| [Website](https://beatsaberleague.com/)

## BeatSaver

The BeatSaver discord provides a centralized location for site support, content reports, bug reports, and developer
discussions related to the main repository of custom maps.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/rjVDapkMmj) | [Website](https://beatsaver.com/)

## BeatTogether Community

Community for the BeatTogether mod. This mod allows crossplay between PC platforms and Quest.
This is a place to discuss the mod and follow its progress and releases!

[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/gezGrFG4tz)

## BSManager

BSManager is a community of Beat Saber fans who use BSManager to manage their mods and customize their gaming experience.
It is a friendly space where users can exchange tips, ask questions, get technical assistance, and discuss anything
related to Beat Saber.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uSqbHVpKdV) | [GitHub](https://github.com/Zagrios/bs-manager)

## ChroMapper

ChroMapper is a community maintained map editor for Beat Saber. Built from the ground up, ChroMapper brings Beat Saber
mapping to the next level with new visuals, graphics, and tools.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/mMzzNSh) | [GitHub](https://www.github.com/Caeden117/ChroMapper)

## Cube Community

Beat Saber gameplay spotlights, scoring guides, clip compilations, community events and more!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC)
| [YouTube](https://youtube.com/CubeCommunity)

## KPOP Beat Saber

Hi! We are a small community dedicated to mapping songs for Beat Saber. Bonus points if it's a Kpop song.
But we welcome anyone who is interested in mapping or wants feedback! We also update the server with Kpop
themed sabers and recent Kpop maps.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/c9uHGYP)

## Saber Factory

Welcome to the Saber Factory server! Here you find all resources dedicated to the Saber Factory mod. Get help with the
usage and creation of content, keep in touch with new updates, leave suggestions and much more.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/PjD7WcChH3)

## ScoreSaber

Custom leaderboards and global ranking!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/WpuDMwU)
| [Twitter](https://twitter.com/scoresaber)

## Qosmetics Community

Qosmetics Community is a community focused around providing Custom models, including sabers bloqs and walls to the quest!
We are striving to improve and grow the community of the Quest Custom Content to a whole new level. Come play your way!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/NXnPYEh)

## QuestBoard

We are a quest-focused beat saber community server, dedicated to improving the experience for as many players as we can.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/d6DyW9v)
| [Website](https://www.questmodding.com/)
