wiki/communities/regional-hub.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: A list of other regional communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group
---

# Regional Hub

A list of other regional communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group.

## Africa

_None yet._

## Americas

### Canada

#### Beat Saber Canada

The official Discord for the Canadian Beat Saber community!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/vvq7wX3)

## Asia

### Beat Saber Asia

Community for Asian players and VR organizations.
We have a limited quota for International members depending on our server size.

[Application](https://forms.gle/Ga3jWoCkugPBD6BZ6)

### Israel

#### Beat Saber Israel

A server made to bring Isreali Beat Saber players together. International players welcome.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/HHH7sK8)

### Korea

#### B.S. Community for KOR

A community of Korean players :) information sharing and problem solving between users

[Discord](https://discord.gg/SEFBZrG)

### Middle East

#### Beat Saber Middle East

A private Discord for the saber beaters from / in the Middle East

[Application form](http://bit.ly/BSME_Application)

## Europe

### Austria

#### Hit bloq Community Austria

Unofficial Austrian Beat Saber discord that just recently opened doors for every Beat Saber fan all over the world!
(We also have a Linus Tech Tip!)

[Discord](https://discord.gg/TvRkNY2)

### Belgium

#### Belgian Beat Saber Community

Official (private) Belgian Beat Saber Community for our fellow Belgian Beat Saber players

[Application Form](https://forms.gle/26VXi4HmnZnDoPZN7)

### Denmark

#### Dane Saber

Official Beat Saber server for people that can pronounce "rød grød med fløde"!
International players welcome too!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/QNzRMukPSP)

### Finland

#### Tahti Sapeli

Finnish Beat Saber community, everyone welcome!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/qCtX7yBv7J)

### France

#### Beat Saber FR

Discord server for the French Beat Saber community.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/8cAAa7J)

### Germany

#### German Beat Saber Community

German Beat Saber Community, JOIN US NOW! We have Magician! 😎

[Discord](https://discord.gg/NkYn6tkvMh)

### Italy

#### Italian Beat Saber Community

A chill and accessible place for Italian players to hang around and meet each other

[Discord](https://discord.gg/asdJZ7cTxe)

### Russia

#### Beato Saba

Community for Russian speaking players

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5JXRY8z)

### Spain

#### Beat Saber España

Discord server for the Spanish Beat Saber community, people from other countries are welcome too :D

[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/x6mChxk)

### Sweden

#### Beat Saber Sweden

We're the people who has fika with kanelbulle, and sometimes köttbullar...  
The official Swedish discord, right here!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/9HavEGBzZz)

### The Netherlands

#### Dutch Beat Saber Group

The Dutch Beat Saber Group, featuring multiplayer rooms, movie nights, VRC nights, and more!
Compare your ScoreSaber profile with other players using their custom BeatSaber Bot.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/sDa7xrE)

### UK

#### British Beat Saber Discord

We have tea!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/FC2pzeN)

### Norway

#### Beat Saber Norge

We are a small community based in the relatively small country of Norway.
We want to have an accepting community of people from all countries with the use of our bot made by Rocker!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/nZuY3yM)

### Ireland

#### Beat Saber Ireland

Discord server for the Irish Beat Saber community, international players are welcome too!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uKQzjRQ)

---

## Oceania

_None yet._

Commit message:

Updated Italian server in regional-hub (#633)

wiki/communities/regional-hub.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
description: A list of other regional communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group
---

# Regional Hub

A list of other regional communities outside of the Beat Saber Modding Group.

## Africa

_None yet._

## Americas

### Canada

#### Beat Saber Canada

The official Discord for the Canadian Beat Saber community!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/vvq7wX3)

## Asia

### Beat Saber Asia

Community for Asian players and VR organizations.
We have a limited quota for International members depending on our server size.

[Application](https://forms.gle/Ga3jWoCkugPBD6BZ6)

### Israel

#### Beat Saber Israel

A server made to bring Isreali Beat Saber players together. International players welcome.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/HHH7sK8)

### Korea

#### B.S. Community for KOR

A community of Korean players :) information sharing and problem solving between users

[Discord](https://discord.gg/SEFBZrG)

### Middle East

#### Beat Saber Middle East

A private Discord for the saber beaters from / in the Middle East

[Application form](http://bit.ly/BSME_Application)

## Europe

### Austria

#### Hit bloq Community Austria

Unofficial Austrian Beat Saber discord that just recently opened doors for every Beat Saber fan all over the world!
(We also have a Linus Tech Tip!)

[Discord](https://discord.gg/TvRkNY2)

### Belgium

#### Belgian Beat Saber Community

Official (private) Belgian Beat Saber Community for our fellow Belgian Beat Saber players

[Application Form](https://forms.gle/26VXi4HmnZnDoPZN7)

### Denmark

#### Dane Saber

Official Beat Saber server for people that can pronounce "rød grød med fløde"!
International players welcome too!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/QNzRMukPSP)

### Finland

#### Tahti Sapeli

Finnish Beat Saber community, everyone welcome!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/qCtX7yBv7J)

### France

#### Beat Saber FR

Discord server for the French Beat Saber community.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/8cAAa7J)

### Germany

#### German Beat Saber Community

German Beat Saber Community, JOIN US NOW! We have Magician! 😎

[Discord](https://discord.gg/NkYn6tkvMh)

### Italy

#### BSITA

The official server of Beat Saber Italia! Open for international players too!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/m6NPkrhVFy)

### Russia

#### Beato Saba

Community for Russian speaking players

[Discord](https://discord.gg/5JXRY8z)

### Spain

#### Beat Saber España

Discord server for the Spanish Beat Saber community, people from other countries are welcome too :D

[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/x6mChxk)

### Sweden

#### Beat Saber Sweden

We're the people who has fika with kanelbulle, and sometimes köttbullar...  
The official Swedish discord, right here!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/9HavEGBzZz)

### The Netherlands

#### Dutch Beat Saber Group

The Dutch Beat Saber Group, featuring multiplayer rooms, movie nights, VRC nights, and more!
Compare your ScoreSaber profile with other players using their custom BeatSaber Bot.

[Discord](https://discord.gg/sDa7xrE)

### UK

#### British Beat Saber Discord

We have tea!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/FC2pzeN)

### Norway

#### Beat Saber Norge

We are a small community based in the relatively small country of Norway.
We want to have an accepting community of people from all countries with the use of our bot made by Rocker!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/nZuY3yM)

### Ireland

#### Beat Saber Ireland

Discord server for the Irish Beat Saber community, international players are welcome too!

[Discord](https://discord.gg/uKQzjRQ)

---

## Oceania

_None yet._
