wiki/grips-and-tricks.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
---
# Grips And Tricks
_A compilation of resources to help you to hit bloq_

## Ranking Up Mega-Tutorial
An incredible writeup by TeknozFR to help you get that PP.  
[https://bsaber.com/indepth-guide/](https://bsaber.com/indepth-guide/)

## Scoring
See this video by the [Cube Community YT](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdG9zS8jVcQIKl7plwWXUkg) about how the scoring system works.

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVbXCGddspA' />

Additionally, here's an image from the devs about how the [hitboxes](https://twitter.com/Split82/status/979365834324889600) work

![Bloq Hitbox](~@images/mapping/hitbox-from-split.jpg)

## Ranking
*How does global ranking work? What are performance points? What are the numbers in my brackets? Why is my PP so small?*

You can find your global ranking and PP on [ScoreSaber](https://scoresaber.com/global) - here you can search for your name. Your scoresaber account is tied to your Steam / Oculus username.

1. Ranked songs are assigned PP (PP = performance points). The exact amount of PP gained is determined by the accuracy you finish a ranked song with. How much PP a ranked song is worth is determined by a secret algorithm developed by Umbranox, our Panda God.
2. To avoid having skilled players grinding lots of easier songs that are worth less PP, a curve is applied to your plays. This curve is 0.965^(x-1) where x is the position of that score on your song list.
e.g. If your top play is a 260 PP play, you will be rewarded 260 weighted PP which is a 100% of the raw PP of that play. If your second top play is 247 raw PP, you will be rewarded 238 weighted PP which is the actual amount of PP you get after the curve applies. Here is a list of my current top 4 plays where the raw PP is in italic and the weighted PP is in bold.

| |
| --- | 
| 260pp -> **260pp** (100% of raw PP) |
| 247pp -> **238pp** (96.5% of raw PP) |
| 246pp -> **229pp** (93.1% of raw PP) |
| 244pp -> **219pp**  (89.9% of raw PP) |

3. To rank up, get scores on new songs that are worth more or a similar amount of PP to your top scores. When you don't have any new high PP songs to play, replay songs on your first pages to get better scores. Here is a [spreadsheet by DuoVR](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ufWgF2tWS0gD3pIr0_d37EkIcmCrUy1x6hyzPEZDPNc/edit#gid=1775412672) of all the ranked songs and how much PP they are worth. This list is updated every 24 hours. 

Here is another site by [DuoVR](https://duovr.github.io/BigPP/) where you can input your scoresaber profile and it shows you songs that you should play for a lot of PP.

*This section is adapted from Tek's writeup in the Beat Saber Canadian discord.*

::: tip
Songs are ranked/unranked by a ranking team in the [ScoreSaber Discord](https://discord.gg/WpuDMwU).  
You can follow along in this server to see what changes happen!
:::

## Grips
Cube Community made some videos showing off some of the more popular grips for Oculus Touch controllers (CV1) and Vive Wands.

### HTC Vive Wands
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7x_wb7RrgU' />

![Vive Grips Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/vive-grips-guide.jpg "Vive Grips Guide")

### Oculus Rift
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFt90q69aEA' />

![Oculus Grips Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/oculus-grips-guide.jpg "Oculus Rift Grips Guide")

### Oculus Rift S and Quest
A video has not yet been made for Rift S and Quest controllers, but you can find some examples in addition to the image below in their `#tips-and-grips` channel! [CC Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC)  
![Oculus Rift S/Quest Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/newOculusGrips.jpg "Oculus Rift S/Quest Guide")

### Valve Index Controllers
A video has not yet been made for Index controllers, but you can find some examples in their `#tips-and-grips` channel!  
[CC Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC)

## Improve Vive controller tracking
Your body may be blocking one lighthouse from seeing one of your controllers.
Here are some steps that may help improve tracking.

1. Move into the corner of your playspace.
2. Rotate your body 45 degrees so that your lighthouses can see both controllers. 
3. Rotate the room within Beat Saber's settings to compensate, so that you appear facing forward within the game.

![Vive Tracking Help](~@images/grips-and-tricks/vive-tracking-help.gif "Vive Tracking Help")

This can apply to oculus sensors too.

## Touch Controller Battery Disconnect
The force of your swings in Beat Saber can cause the spring in the touch controllers to compress and disconnect the battery for a brief moment. This is what happens when you see your saber lose positional tracking but still rotate in place. To alleviate this, ragesaq recommends adding extra springs inside the battery compartment to decrease the likelihood of battery disconnects happening, explained in this [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/oculus/comments/a2h7o4/psa_adding_an_additional_spring_to_the_battery/?st=JR9Q7OEZ&sh=a7a3d091)

## Also Consider
![Also Consider](~@images/grips-and-tricks/allow-adequate-room-around-you-during-game-play-put-on-27689465.png)

Commit message:

Added ranking-guide.md & modifications (#230)
* ranking & scoring guide update

- added new link to "Getting Started" on the main page (links to ranking guide)
- created ranking-guide page
- created ranking-guide folder in images
- modified ranking guide link in "Grips and Tricks" from bsaber.com to new ranking-guide page
-updated bs canada community link from invite form to discord invite

* updated grips and ranking guide

* updated grips and ranking guide

* Adjust table more, remove " " from image parenths

* Formatting and link fixing for ranking page

* Resize image to be under 1mb

Co-authored-by: williums <williuums@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: williums <bwei.williams@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Bloodcloak <59000966+bloodcloak-beatsaber@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Brandon Williams <--global>

wiki/grips-and-tricks.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---
# Grips And Tricks
_A compilation of resources to help you to hit bloq_

## Ranking Up Mega-Tutorial
An incredible writeup by TeknozFR to help you get that PP.
[Ranking & Scoring Guide](./ranking-guide)

## Scoring
See this video by the [Cube Community YT](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdG9zS8jVcQIKl7plwWXUkg) about how the scoring system works.

<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rVbXCGddspA' />

Additionally, here's an image from the devs about how the [hitboxes](https://twitter.com/Split82/status/979365834324889600) work

![Bloq Hitbox](~@images/mapping/hitbox-from-split.jpg)

## Ranking
*How does global ranking work? What are performance points? What are the numbers in my brackets? Why is my PP so small?*

You can find your global ranking and PP on [ScoreSaber](https://scoresaber.com/global) - here you can search for your name. Your scoresaber account is tied to your Steam / Oculus username.

1. Ranked songs are assigned PP (PP = performance points). The exact amount of PP gained is determined by the accuracy you finish a ranked song with. How much PP a ranked song is worth is determined by a secret algorithm developed by Umbranox, our Panda God.
2. To avoid having skilled players grinding lots of easier songs that are worth less PP, a curve is applied to your plays. This curve is 0.965^(x-1) where x is the position of that score on your song list.
e.g. If your top play is a 260 PP play, you will be rewarded 260 weighted PP which is a 100% of the raw PP of that play. If your second top play is 247 raw PP, you will be rewarded 238 weighted PP which is the actual amount of PP you get after the curve applies. Here is a list of my current top 4 plays where the raw PP is in italic and the weighted PP is in bold.

|Raw PP | Weighted PP |
| --- | --- |
| 260pp | **260pp** (100% of raw PP) |
| 247pp | **238pp** (96.5% of raw PP) |
| 246pp | **229pp** (93.1% of raw PP) |
| 244pp | **219pp**  (89.9% of raw PP) |

3. To rank up, get scores on new songs that are worth more or a similar amount of PP to your top scores. When you don't have any new high PP songs to play, replay songs on your first pages to get better scores. Here is a [spreadsheet by DuoVR](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ufWgF2tWS0gD3pIr0_d37EkIcmCrUy1x6hyzPEZDPNc/edit#gid=1775412672) of all the ranked songs and how much PP they are worth. This list is updated every 24 hours.

Here is another site by [DuoVR](https://duovr.github.io/BigPP/) where you can input your scoresaber profile and it shows you songs that you should play for a lot of PP.

*This section is adapted from Tek's writeup in the Beat Saber Canadian discord.*

::: tip
Songs are ranked by the team in the [ScoreSaber Discord](https://discord.gg/WpuDMwU).
You can follow along in this server to see what changes happen!
:::

## Grips
Cube Community made some videos showing off some of the more popular grips for Oculus Touch controllers (CV1) and Vive Wands.

### HTC Vive Wands
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7x_wb7RrgU' />

![Vive Grips Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/vive-grips-guide.jpg)

### Oculus Rift
<YouTube url='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFt90q69aEA' />

![Oculus Grips Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/oculus-grips-guide.jpg)

### Oculus Rift S and Quest
A video has not yet been made for Rift S and Quest controllers, but you can find some examples below!
![Oculus Rift S/Quest Guide](~@images/grips-and-tricks/touch2-grips.jpg)

### Valve Index Controllers
A video has not yet been made for Index controllers, but you can find some examples in their `#tips-and-grips` channel!
[CC Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC)

### Oculus Quest 2
A video has not yet been made for the Quest 2's controllers, but you can find some examples below!
![Oculus Quest 2](~@images/grips-and-tricks/touch3-grips.jpg)

Check out Cube Community's `#tips-and-grips` channel for more suggestions and examples in their [Discord](https://discord.gg/dwe8mbC). Please remember that everyone's playstyle and body is different; someone else's grip might not work exactly like you need it to. Don't be afraid to experiment and find what's right for you!

## Improve Vive controller tracking
Your body may be blocking one lighthouse from seeing one of your controllers.
Here are some steps that may help improve tracking.

1. Move into the corner of your playspace.
2. Rotate your body 45 degrees so that your lighthouses can see both controllers.
3. Rotate the room within Beat Saber's settings to compensate, so that you appear facing forward within the game.

![Vive Tracking Help](~@images/grips-and-tricks/vive-tracking-help.gif)

This can apply to oculus sensors too.

## Touch Controller Battery Disconnect
The force of your swings in Beat Saber can cause the spring in the touch controllers to compress and disconnect the battery for a brief moment. This is what happens when you see your saber lose positional tracking but still rotate in place. To alleviate this, ragesaq recommends adding extra springs inside the battery compartment to decrease the likelihood of battery disconnects happening, explained in this [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/oculus/comments/a2h7o4/psa_adding_an_additional_spring_to_the_battery/?st=JR9Q7OEZ&sh=a7a3d091)

## Also Consider
![Also Consider](~@images/grips-and-tricks/allow-adequate-room-around-you-during-game-play-put-on-27689465.png)
