wiki/faq/README.md, before:

# Frequently Asked Questions
## I just got the game, how do I get started?
Check out our [beginner's guide](/beginners-guide.html)!

## How do I get more songs?
> [BeatSaver](https://beatsaver.com) is the master repository of custom songs made by the community. Many other tools and sites enhance the experience of downloading custom songs, but this site is the source of truth.

If you download maps manually from BeatSaver, extract them into a folder and place the files in `Beat Saber/Beat Saber_Data/CustomLevels`. This is the directory that the game natively reads custom maps from.

### BeastSaber
[Beast Saber](https://www.bsaber.com) is a review site that aims to curate all of the songs on BeatSaver. You can also download playlists, follow mappers, find songs using advanced sorting methods and more.

### Song Management Tools
The following are programs to be used on the desktop to help you download custom songs, with some other features as well.
* [Beat Saber Downloader](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QWedF77hWYbqcigIWa2UcpXlhqGTjwR1/view) a map downloader by Sturdyfool0.
* [BeatList](https://github.com/Alaanor/beatlist) is an app to manage playlist and beatmaps, by Alaanor. 

## How do I install playlists?
Place the playlist file into `Beat Saber/Playlists` and select it in-game, then hit download. You can create playlists using one of the programs above.

## How do I make my own custom levels?
See [mapping](/mapping/)!

## How do I load plugins that aren't in Mod Assistant?
See [this section](/pc-modding.md#manual-installation) in the beginners guide.
## How does the multiplayer mod work?

The official multiplayer has not been released, but you can use the multiplayer mod by Andruzzzhka.  
[Here is a guide to set up the multiplayer mod.](https://bs.assistant.moe/Multiplayer/)

## My game updated and now none of my mods are working!
Each time the game updates it is possible *(and very likely)* that your existing will stop working and need to be updated.
The devs realized this, so when the game updates and you run it for the first time, everything in the `Plugins` folder is moved into the `Incompatible Plugins` folder. **Leave those plugins in there!**

To get mods back, simply **run the installer again.**  
The BeatMods repository only includes mods that have been confirmed to work on the latest version of the game!

If you're confused by any of this, visit [Beginners Guide](/beginners-guide.md).

## How does the scoring system work in Beat Saber? How does global ranking work?
We have sections on the [grips and tricks](/grips-and-tricks.md) page dedicated to the scoring and ranking systems, check them out!

## My menus are blank and I have nothing to click on!
If the main window in your game is blank, your save file likely got corrupted.

To fix it, navigate to:
`%AppData%\..\LocalLow\Hyperbolic Magnetism`

Delete or rename the Beat Saber folder to something else. When you re-enter the game, it'll recreate the save file and should load the main menu properly.

## How did you run the invitational (2018) stream?
Megalon made a 6-part writeup in the discord in early July 2018, and the following link to those posts in the BSMG discord:

1. [Setup RTMP server and connections](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463600705811251200)
2. [Recieve the streams in OBS](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463603246842511362)
3. [OBS workflow and tips](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463606263926751233)
4. [Creating the UI](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463615913405448192)
5. [The Live Score display](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463621857913077770)
6. [Audio and music](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463651616235716619)

Commit message:

Misc Update
Adjust phrasing pointed out by translators
Add info from feedback channel
Update some outdated information

wiki/faq/README.md, after:

# Frequently Asked Questions
## I just got the game, how do I get started?
Check out our [beginner's guide](/beginners-guide.html)!

## How do I get more songs?
> [BeatSaver](https://beatsaver.com) is the master repository of custom songs made by the community. Many other tools and sites enhance the experience of downloading custom songs, but this place is where they are hosted.

If you download maps manually from BeatSaver, extract them into a folder and place the files in `Beat Saber/Beat Saber_Data/CustomLevels`. This is the directory that the game natively reads custom maps from.

### BeastSaber
[Beast Saber](https://www.bsaber.com) is a review site that aims to curate all of the songs on BeatSaver. You can also download playlists, follow mappers, find songs using advanced sorting methods and more.

### Song Management Tools
The following are programs to be used on the desktop to help you download custom songs, with some other features as well.
* [Beat Saber Downloader](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1QWedF77hWYbqcigIWa2UcpXlhqGTjwR1/view) a map downloader by Sturdyfool0.
* [BeatList](https://github.com/Alaanor/beatlist) is an app to manage playlist and beatmaps, by Alaanor. 

## How do I install playlists?
**For PC users:**  
You need to install the `PlaylistLoaderLite` mod. Then you can either
* Use the `Install Playlist` tool in the Options tab of Mod Assistant.
* Place the playlist file into `Beat Saber/Playlists` and select it in BeatList, then hit download all.

You should now see the playlist next to the Custom Levels album's in-game. If there are levels missing from the playlist, you will need to download them manually either using BeatList or directly from Beatsaver or Bsaber.

**For Quest users:**  
You can use [Playlist Editor Pro](https://beatsaberquest.com/bmbf/my-tools/playlist-editor-pro/) to manage the playlists on your Quest. Note that a custom level can only appear once in-game due to a limitation with BMBF.

:::warning WARNING for Quest Users
Reloading your Custom Songs Folder resets all playlist organization.
:::

## How do I make my own custom levels?
See [mapping](/mapping/)!

## How do I load plugins that aren't in Mod Assistant?
See [this section](/pc-modding.md#manual-installation) in the beginners guide.

## Does multiplayer have crossplay?
Officially, multiplayer is limited to playing with other people in the store version (Oculus/Steam) you purchased. Additionally, modifying the game on Quest disables official multiplayer.

The BeatTogether mod is the current solution for cross-platform play between the modded game versions. Join their [Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/gezGrFG4tz) and check the `#install-instructions` channel for more information.

## My game updated and now none of my mods are working!
Each time the game updates it is possible *(and very likely)* that your existing mods will stop working and need to be updated.
The devs realized this, so when the game updates and you run it for the first time, everything in the `Plugins` folder is moved into a new folder called `Old 1.xx.x Plugins`. **Leave those plugins in there!**

To get mods back, simply **run the installer again.**  
The BeatMods repository only includes mods that have been confirmed to work on the latest version of the game!

If you're confused by any of this, visit [Beginners Guide](/beginners-guide.md).

## How does the scoring system work in Beat Saber? How does global ranking work?
We have sections on the [grips and tricks](/grips-and-tricks.md) page dedicated to the scoring and ranking systems, check them out!

## My menus are blank and I have nothing to click on!
If the main window in your game is blank, your save file likely got corrupted.

To fix it, navigate to:
`%AppData%\..\LocalLow\Hyperbolic Magnetism`

Delete or rename the Beat Saber folder to something else. When you re-enter the game, it'll recreate the save file and should load the main menu properly.

## How did you run the invitational (2018) stream?
Megalon made a 6-part writeup in the discord in early July 2018, and the following link to those posts in the BSMG discord:

1. [Setup RTMP server and connections](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463600705811251200)
2. [Recieve the streams in OBS](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463603246842511362)
3. [OBS workflow and tips](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463606263926751233)
4. [Creating the UI](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463615913405448192)
5. [The Live Score display](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463621857913077770)
6. [Audio and music](https://discordapp.com/channels/441805394323439646/441805394323439648/463651616235716619)
