wiki/about/3d-artists.md, before:

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# 3D Artists

From sabers to notes, custom models have always been a popular aspect of
modded beat saber which wouldn't be possible without them.

## AkaRaiden

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## angeloid0103

Wrote the custom saber creation guide among other fantastic contributions.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Derpy Hooves

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Fusion

They've got some impressive shaders and they're not afraid to use them.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Ibodan

Most well known for their incredibly flashy dance platform and space opera sabers,
but it's a little known fact that they also make mods!

**Roles:** 3D Artist, Modder
**Contributions:** Bloom Mod

## JJ | hi

I've been modeling for almost 3 years and make mostly private and collab sabers.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Profile/?user=366411130962313216)

## laugexd

Developer of ModelSaber 2.0 and crafter of many sabers and bloqs.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/laugexd) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCr_JES9nBCUaAR9-UbgDMRw) | [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Profile/?user=146243483898871808)

## MissRaynor

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Mordred

One of the first creators to mass produce avatars, and thus give birth to this role.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Oshi

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## RedBrumbler

"The guy who made giant glowing dicks in beat saber" ~Emulamer 12th of July 2019

As you can read I make sabers for quest, but generally I've been active in the asset modding part of beat saber,
I've also done some for other games but Beat saber is my main love. If you ever need help making sabers specifically
for quest you can always ask me over in the quest modeling channel (until we get that qsaber mod anyways)
keep on sabering that meat till it's real tender!

**Roles:** 3D Artist, Support

[PayPal](https://paypal.me/RedBrumblerOfficial?locale.x=nl_NL) | [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/RedBrumbler) |
[Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/redbrumbler) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYmzlDob8BQYWrOQWkHtCpQ) |
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/red.brumbler.7) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/RedBrumbler) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/RedBrumbler/BeatOnCustomSabers) | [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/user/RedBrumbler/)

## SeventyTwo

Tons and tons of Full Body Tracking support!

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[Donate](https://paypal.me/theseventytwo)

## Tachrayonic

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Yuuki

3D Artist and Quest Modder. Supporting the VR community in any way that I can!
Primarily focusing on offering niche Beat Saber mods for the Quest and helping enhance gameplay through 3D models.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH4NTKdVNjnJpfuMrk71Fw) | [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/yuukisaves) | [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/supportyuuki)

---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

::: tip See Also
**Support:** [Emma](./supports.md#emma)  
**Moderators:** [DeeJay](./moderators.md#deejay) | [𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯](./moderators.md#jennifer) | [Pink](./moderators.md#pink)  
**Staff:** [Assistant](./staff.md#assistant) | [Bobbie](./staff.md#bobbie) | [Pink](./staff.md#pink)
:::

Commit message:

3 main changes
I added more info regarding custom platforms, changed the guide name from "Emma's Platform Guide" to "Emma and gamesequence's Platform Guide, and added myself to the wiki in the 3d artists section (I hope thats ok).

wiki/about/3d-artists.md, after:

---
prev: false
next: false
---

# 3D Artists

From sabers to notes, custom models have always been a popular aspect of
modded beat saber which wouldn't be possible without them.

## AkaRaiden

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## angeloid0103

Wrote the custom saber creation guide among other fantastic contributions.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Derpy Hooves

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Fusion

They've got some impressive shaders and they're not afraid to use them.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Ibodan

Most well known for their incredibly flashy dance platform and space opera sabers,
but it's a little known fact that they also make mods!

**Roles:** 3D Artist, Modder
**Contributions:** Bloom Mod

## JJ | hi

I've been modeling for almost 3 years and make mostly private and collab sabers.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Profile/?user=366411130962313216)

## laugexd

Developer of ModelSaber 2.0 and crafter of many sabers and bloqs.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/laugexd) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCr_JES9nBCUaAR9-UbgDMRw) | [ModelSaber](https://modelsaber.com/Profile/?user=146243483898871808)

## MissRaynor

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Mordred

One of the first creators to mass produce avatars, and thus give birth to this role.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Oshi

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## RedBrumbler

"The guy who made giant glowing dicks in beat saber" ~Emulamer 12th of July 2019

As you can read I make sabers for quest, but generally I've been active in the asset modding part of beat saber,
I've also done some for other games but Beat saber is my main love. If you ever need help making sabers specifically
for quest you can always ask me over in the quest modeling channel (until we get that qsaber mod anyways)
keep on sabering that meat till it's real tender!

**Roles:** 3D Artist, Support

[PayPal](https://paypal.me/RedBrumblerOfficial?locale.x=nl_NL) | [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/RedBrumbler) |
[Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/redbrumbler) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCYmzlDob8BQYWrOQWkHtCpQ) |
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/red.brumbler.7) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/RedBrumbler) |
[GitHub](https://github.com/RedBrumbler/BeatOnCustomSabers) | [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/user/RedBrumbler/)

## SeventyTwo

Tons and tons of Full Body Tracking support!

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[Donate](https://paypal.me/theseventytwo)

## Tachrayonic

**Roles:** 3D Artist

## Yuuki

3D Artist and Quest Modder. Supporting the VR community in any way that I can!
Primarily focusing on offering niche Beat Saber mods for the Quest and helping enhance gameplay through 3D models.

**Roles:** 3D Artist

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIH4NTKdVNjnJpfuMrk71Fw) | [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/yuukisaves) | [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/supportyuuki)

---

## gamesequence

That is professor to you! Updated the Custom platforms guide. I consider myself a 3d artist. Ive made sabers, custom platforms, 
vrc avatars and so much more. Also the creator of the Crystallized platform (You can find it on my patreon). I embrace creativity
so much I sometimes forget to take breaks while working! If you need help with anything modeling related I'm usually active in 
[#pc-3d-modeling](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/468249466865057802) in bsmg.

[Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/games_plats) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gamesequence)

**Roles:** 3D Artist

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

::: tip See Also
**Support:** [Emma](./supports.md#emma)  
**Moderators:** [DeeJay](./moderators.md#deejay) | [𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯](./moderators.md#jennifer) | [Pink](./moderators.md#pink)  
**Staff:** [Assistant](./staff.md#assistant) | [Bobbie](./staff.md#bobbie) | [Pink](./staff.md#pink)
:::
