wiki/about/event-winner.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# Event Winners
Winners of past contests/events held in the discord. Keep up with `#server-announcements`
for such events happening now, or in the future!

## 2020 Christmas Contest
The third Holiday/Winter contest, Christmas 2: Electric Padoru.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/791761312807911424)

### Map Winners

#### Vanilla

* **1st:** [PENTATONIX - Sleigh Ride](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c10) by **ETAN**
* **2nd:** [Majestica - Ghost of Christmas Present](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c53) by **Cyrix**
* **3rd:** [BTS - Dynamite (Holiday Remix)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c07) by **Alekcake**

#### Modded

* **1st:** [Billie Eilish - Come Out and Play](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11bbc) by **SpecVR & Tall_Chilis_Boi**

### Model Winners

* **1st:** [Christmas Light Show](https://modelsaber.com/files/platform/1608165443/Christams%20LightShow.plat)
  Platform by **AkaRaiden**

### Grand Prize
[PENTATONIX - Sleigh Ride](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c10) by **ETAN**

## 2020 Halloween Contest
The third Halloween contest. This time with celebrity judges, LostVint, Protostar, Ikeiwa, C418, TougeVR, Mawntee, and PHIABunny.
Also **a _whole pumpkin_** was given as part of the Grand Prize courtesy of **Steven 🎀**.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/772231511557799946)

### Map Winners

#### Vanilla

* **1st:** [Marnik - Hocus Pocus (Original Mix)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10377) by **ETAN**
* **2nd:** [Tim Ismag - VEDMA](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/104a0) by **Jamman360**
* **3rd:** [TryHardNinja - It's Me](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10353) by **FireStrike**

#### Modded

* **1st:** [水樹奈々(Nana Mizuki) - Dancing in the Velvet Moon](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10586) by **aggrogahu**

### Model Winners

* **1st:** [ditCorrupt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Mry4kifnzbW1C8yD9aIjk2RzCYwRv24U/view?usp=sharing) Saber by **Mdot**
* **2nd:** [Spookscalibur](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1603252667) Saber by **JJ | hi**
* **3rd:** [O-Shadow](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1603237380) Saber by **Okachamie**

### Grand Prize
[Code:Pandorum, Figure - RedRum](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/1021f) by **nitronik.exe**

## 2020 Battle Royale
An all out Battle Royale managed by Reaxt that went for almost 9 hours. Challengers faced a variety of challenges
both related and unrelated to Beat Saber. The final one being an extreme round of Connect 4.

---

[Victory Royale Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/695297076669448203)

### Top 7
In no particular order...

* **Alzaraf**
* **Bobbie**
* **NarlyToad**
* **Olaf**
* **Pan**
* **Arti**
* **Shad**

### Victory Royale
**Arti** also known as **ratsby**

## 2019 Christmas Contest
The second Holiday/Winter contest. This time throwing the holidays out of the window for Christmas, Padoru, and a Grand Prize.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/660622369882112030)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [August Burns Red - Carol Of The Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/762c) by **nitronik.exe**
* **2nd:** [Swing Republic - Boogie Woogie Santa ft. Patti Page](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c71) by **HelenCarnate**
* **3rd:** [After the Rain - Black Christmas (JubyPhonic English Cover)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/7748) by **Bloodcloak**

#### Honorable Mentions
In no particular order...

* [August Burns Red - Carol of the Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/8fe5) by **Skeelie**
* [Sunrise Skater Kids - All I Want For Christmas is You](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/779d) by **Malakite**

### Model Winners

* **Avatar:** [Christmas Miku](https://modelsaber.com/Avatars/?id=1576887435) by **williums**
* **Note:** [Present Notes](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/588846710273605645/656635539705036854/Present_Note.bloq)
  by **CyanSnow**
* **Platform:** [Christmas Lights](https://modelsaber.com/Platforms/?id=1576253435) by **Halcyon12**
* **Sabers:** [Frozen Sabers](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1575735225) by **Raphpower**

### Mod Winner
A special version (3.0.1 for Beat Saber 1.7) of
[HitScoreVisualizer](https://github.com/sc2ad/QuestHitScoreVisualizer/releases) by **Sc2ad** for Quest

### Grand Prize
[Bossfight - Carol of the Cartels](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/73c9) by **Fefeland**

## 2019 Halloween Contest
The second Halloween contest, Halloween 2: Electric Boogaloo.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/640998855046856724)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [Jack The Envious - This is Halloween (The Nightmare Before Christmas Cover)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6d22)
  by **Fefeland**
* **2nd:** [AronChupa, Little Sis Nora - Rave in the Grave](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cf7) by **TranquillizeMe**
* **3rd:** [The Living Tombstone - Ghostbusters REMIX](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6b81) by **DownyCat**

#### Honorable Mentions
In no particular order...

* [S3RL - Scary Movie](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cf9) by **Teuflum**
* [Slicey - Stranger Things Theme Remix](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6d19) by **JohnnyDee**
* [Black Tiger Sex Machine - Zombie ft. Panther](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cfb) by **Checkthepan**
* [Little Shop of Horrors - Movie Soundtrack](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6920) by **techbutterfly**

### Model Winners

* **Sabers:** [Harvesters Reaper](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1572253878) by **Tachrayonic**
* **Platform:** [Halloween Platform](https://modelsaber.com/Platforms/?id=1571862883) by **Pixelguy**
* **Note:** [uwu Pumpkin Notes](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/588846710273605645/639139278844198932/uwu_Pumpkin_Notes.bloq)
  by **Pixelguy**

### Mod Winners

* **PC:** [SpoopyBloqs](https://github.com/DeadlyKitten/SpoopyBloqs/releases/tag/1.0.0)
  for Beat Saber 1.4.2 by **Steven 🎀**
* **Quest:** [HappyHalloweenV2](https://github.com/TycoTech/BeatOnCustomSabers/raw/master/BeatSaberLogos/TycoTech%27s%20BeatSaberLogos/HappyHalloweenV2.zip)
  Asset Menu Title by **TycoTech**

## 2018 Holiday Contest
The very first Holiday/Winter contest hosted by BSMG. Some submissions have been lost in the attic,
but the names of the winners and their submissions will continue on here.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/534951321644826634)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [Lindsey Stirling - Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/238a) by **aggrogahu**
* **2nd:** [Celtic Woman - Carol of the Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/2569) by **Fefeland**
* **3rd:** Saunik - Carol of the Bells by **TehSuperToilet**

### Saber Winner
[Silent Candy Cane Saber](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/446478074125746176/524087064560402432/Silent_Cane_Blade_XA.saber)
by **Tachrayonic** | [Preview Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNiuIf_jU2c)

### Avatar Winner  
[ChristmasMonitorBot](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/450344263453245440/518014914174910465/ChristmasMonitorBot.avatar)
by **DeeJay**

### Platform Winner
[Christmas Platform](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/452948292641488897/522475725610024965/Christmas_Platform.plat)
by **AkaRaiden** | [Preview Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HihTOipgE18)

## 2018 Halloween Contest
The very first Halloween contest hosted by BSMG. Some submissions have been lost in the attic,
but the names of the winners and their submissions will continue on here.  

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/505105038985920515)

### Map Winner
[Two Steps From Hell - Professor Pumplestickle](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/18df) by **Ruckus**

### Saber Winner
Spoopy Hands by **Assistant**

### Avatar Winner
Spooky Scary Skeleton by **DeeJay & RedF**

### Platform Winner
Midnight Graveyard by **Davey**

### Mod Winner
Halloween Mod by **Reality Quintupled**

Commit message:

Add battle royale and misc fixes

wiki/about/event-winner.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# Event Winners
Winners of past contests/events held in the discord. Keep up with `#server-announcements`
for such events happening now, or in the future!

If you want to see us holding more fun events, please consider contributing to the events tier on our [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/beatsabermods)!

## 2021 Battle Royale
Also known as *The Culling* this event was a Skyrim themed Battle Royale held during
on the tail end of April Fools that went on for 5 hours. With over 100 participants, the prize pool of many game keys
were generously donated by Bobbie, Sam, and raftario with the events tier of our Patreon funding the winner's copy of Skyrim.
Additionally, during the 10 person finals stream a whopping 50 gift subs were dropped by Zyxi which allowed us to provide
the winner with a game of their choice on top of Skyrim!

---

[Victory Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/827678349122863144)

### Finalists
In no particular order... these people made it to the top 6 and earned themselves the role!

* DaNike
* Pink
* Fixemega
* Caeden117
* Kaoplo
* Raemien

### Battle Master
GLHolmstroff is honored with the event role for leading the Whiterun Guard into glorious battle and debate on whether a
hotdog is a sandwich.

### Victory Royale
The one person who stood above all the rest... Caeden117

## 2020 Christmas Contest
The third Holiday/Winter contest, Christmas 2: Electric Padoru.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/791761312807911424)

### Map Winners

#### Vanilla

* **1st:** [PENTATONIX - Sleigh Ride](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c10) by **ETAN**
* **2nd:** [Majestica - Ghost of Christmas Present](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c53) by **Cyrix**
* **3rd:** [BTS - Dynamite (Holiday Remix)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c07) by **Alekcake**

#### Modded

* **1st:** [Billie Eilish - Come Out and Play](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11bbc) by **SpecVR & Tall_Chilis_Boi**

### Model Winners

* **1st:** [Christmas Light Show](https://modelsaber.com/files/platform/1608165443/Christams%20LightShow.plat)
  Platform by **AkaRaiden**

### Grand Prize
[PENTATONIX - Sleigh Ride](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c10) by **ETAN**

## 2020 Halloween Contest
The third Halloween contest. This time with celebrity judges, LostVint, Protostar, Ikeiwa, C418, TougeVR, Mawntee, and PHIABunny.
Also **a _whole pumpkin_** was given as part of the Grand Prize courtesy of **Steven 🎀**.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/772231511557799946)

### Map Winners

#### Vanilla

* **1st:** [Marnik - Hocus Pocus (Original Mix)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10377) by **ETAN**
* **2nd:** [Tim Ismag - VEDMA](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/104a0) by **Jamman360**
* **3rd:** [TryHardNinja - It's Me](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10353) by **FireStrike**

#### Modded

* **1st:** [水樹奈々(Nana Mizuki) - Dancing in the Velvet Moon](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/10586) by **aggrogahu**

### Model Winners

* **1st:** [ditCorrupt](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Mry4kifnzbW1C8yD9aIjk2RzCYwRv24U/view?usp=sharing) Saber by **Mdot**
* **2nd:** [Spookscalibur](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1603252667) Saber by **JJ | hi**
* **3rd:** [O-Shadow](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1603237380) Saber by **Okachamie**

### Grand Prize
[Code:Pandorum, Figure - RedRum](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/1021f) by **nitronik.exe**

## 2020 Battle Royale
An all out Battle Royale managed by Reaxt that went for almost 9 hours. Challengers faced a variety of challenges
both related and unrelated to Beat Saber. The final one being an extreme round of Connect 4.

---

[Victory Royale Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/695297076669448203)

### Top 7
In no particular order...

* **Alzaraf**
* **Bobbie**
* **NarlyToad**
* **Olaf**
* **Pan**
* **Arti**
* **Shad**

### Victory Royale
**Arti** also known as **ratsby**

## 2019 Christmas Contest
The second Holiday/Winter contest. This time throwing the holidays out of the window for Christmas, Padoru, and a Grand Prize.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/660622369882112030)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [August Burns Red - Carol Of The Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/762c) by **nitronik.exe**
* **2nd:** [Swing Republic - Boogie Woogie Santa ft. Patti Page](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/11c71) by **HelenCarnate**
* **3rd:** [After the Rain - Black Christmas (JubyPhonic English Cover)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/7748) by **Bloodcloak**

#### Honorable Mentions
In no particular order...

* [August Burns Red - Carol of the Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/8fe5) by **Skeelie**
* [Sunrise Skater Kids - All I Want For Christmas is You](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/779d) by **Malakite**

### Model Winners

* **Avatar:** [Christmas Miku](https://modelsaber.com/Avatars/?id=1576887435) by **williums**
* **Note:** [Present Notes](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/588846710273605645/656635539705036854/Present_Note.bloq)
  by **CyanSnow**
* **Platform:** [Christmas Lights](https://modelsaber.com/Platforms/?id=1576253435) by **Halcyon12**
* **Sabers:** [Frozen Sabers](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1575735225) by **Raphpower**

### Mod Winner
A special version (3.0.1 for Beat Saber 1.7) of
[HitScoreVisualizer](https://github.com/sc2ad/QuestHitScoreVisualizer/releases) by **Sc2ad** for Quest

### Grand Prize
[Bossfight - Carol of the Cartels](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/73c9) by **Fefeland**

## 2019 Halloween Contest
The second Halloween contest, Halloween 2: Electric Boogaloo.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/640998855046856724)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [Jack The Envious - This is Halloween (The Nightmare Before Christmas Cover)](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6d22)
  by **Fefeland**
* **2nd:** [AronChupa, Little Sis Nora - Rave in the Grave](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cf7) by **TranquillizeMe**
* **3rd:** [The Living Tombstone - Ghostbusters REMIX](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6b81) by **DownyCat**

#### Honorable Mentions
In no particular order...

* [S3RL - Scary Movie](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cf9) by **Teuflum**
* [Slicey - Stranger Things Theme Remix](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6d19) by **JohnnyDee**
* [Black Tiger Sex Machine - Zombie ft. Panther](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6cfb) by **Checkthepan**
* [Little Shop of Horrors - Movie Soundtrack](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/6920) by **techbutterfly**

### Model Winners

* **Sabers:** [Harvesters Reaper](https://modelsaber.com/Sabers/?id=1572253878) by **Tachrayonic**
* **Platform:** [Halloween Platform](https://modelsaber.com/Platforms/?id=1571862883) by **Pixelguy**
* **Note:** [uwu Pumpkin Notes](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/588846710273605645/639139278844198932/uwu_Pumpkin_Notes.bloq)
  by **Pixelguy**

### Mod Winners

* **PC:** [SpoopyBloqs](https://github.com/DeadlyKitten/SpoopyBloqs/releases/tag/1.0.0)
  for Beat Saber 1.4.2 by **Steven 🎀**
* **Quest:** [HappyHalloweenV2](https://github.com/TycoTech/BeatOnCustomSabers/raw/master/BeatSaberLogos/TycoTech%27s%20BeatSaberLogos/HappyHalloweenV2.zip)
  Asset Menu Title by **TycoTech**

## 2018 Holiday Contest
The very first Holiday/Winter contest hosted by BSMG. Some submissions have been lost in the attic,
but the names of the winners and their submissions will continue on here.

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/534951321644826634)

### Map Winners

* **1st:** [Lindsey Stirling - Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/238a) by **aggrogahu**
* **2nd:** [Celtic Woman - Carol of the Bells](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/2569) by **Fefeland**
* **3rd:** Saunik - Carol of the Bells by **TehSuperToilet**

### Saber Winner
[Silent Candy Cane Saber](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/446478074125746176/524087064560402432/Silent_Cane_Blade_XA.saber)
by **Tachrayonic** | [Preview Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hNiuIf_jU2c)

### Avatar Winner  
[ChristmasMonitorBot](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/450344263453245440/518014914174910465/ChristmasMonitorBot.avatar)
by **DeeJay**

### Platform Winner
[Christmas Platform](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/452948292641488897/522475725610024965/Christmas_Platform.plat)
by **AkaRaiden** | [Preview Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HihTOipgE18)

## 2018 Halloween Contest
The very first Halloween contest hosted by BSMG. Some submissions have been lost in the attic,
but the names of the winners and their submissions will continue on here.  

---

[Winners Announcement](https://discord.com/channels/441805394323439646/441807344591044619/505105038985920515)

### Map Winner
[Two Steps From Hell - Professor Pumplestickle](https://beatsaver.com/beatmap/18df) by **Ruckus**

### Saber Winner
Spoopy Hands by **Assistant**

### Avatar Winner
Spooky Scary Skeleton by **DeeJay & RedF**

### Platform Winner
Midnight Graveyard by **Davey**

### Mod Winner
Halloween Mod by **Reality Quintupled**
