wiki/about/moderators.md, before:

# Moderators
With a server so large, a lot of moderation is required to keep everything under control.
You can thank this team for keeping the streets clean.

## 24Kings
"Join the Qvolution, also Pink cute"

**Roles:** Moderator  

## Burrito
Ironically doesn't like burritos, thinks tacos are better (true facts)

**Roles:** Moderator, Support

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/BurritoSOFTWARE) | [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/burritosoftware) | [Tip](https://streamelements.com/burritosoft/tip)

## Chara_
brrrrrr

**Roles:** Support, 3D Artists, Moderator

[Qosmetics Community](https://discord.gg/qosmetics) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/CharaHere) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ItsCharaHere)

## Eradawn
"Findus says hai"

**Roles:** Moderator, Support

## Hydrand
Camellia is SourPls

**Roles:** Mapper, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/hydrandvr)

## John
"Tired at all times"

**Roles:** Moderator

## Olaf
Any stroopwafels?  

**Roles:** Moderator  

[Twitch](https://twitch.tv/olafstad)

## RangeValley
> My dad worked for years as an admin, but he got laid off when bots took over. He came home that night and told me we
> had to move into the van, since we couldn't afford rent anymore, then he beat the shit out of me with jumper cables.
> Shitposting should be legal.

**Roles:** Moderator

## Razor
Literally no clue what he's doing when it comes to coding, at all, but he can fix ploogin.

**Roles:** Support, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/sarpest_razor) | [Donate](https://streamelements.com/sarpest_razor/tip)

## Shad
"Every channel is just #pc-mod-support"

**Roles:** Moderator, Mapper, Support

[Maps](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7498cc5a672c850a45) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLiwd2iGUDl2kvw8FM2qwFQ)
| [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/shadlive)

## Zion
kinda vibing

**Roles:** Moderator  

## BeigeAnimal (Retired)
We had to whip this boy into a bit of shape but he's was one of the most effective moderators.
He's not really specialized in any field but he's willing to lend a helping **provided they ask in the right channel.**
Also hates sketchfab links.

**Roles:** Moderator, 3D Artists

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/beigeanimaltv) | [Paypal](https://paypal.me/beigeanimal)

## DeeJay (Retired)
Pepega

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/deejayvr)

## Guatapuri (Retired)
"Came for the game, Stayed for the hugs"

**Roles:** Mapper, Moderator

## 𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯 (Retired)
Poi!

**Roles:** 3D Artists, Support, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/br3uker)

## joelseph (Retired)
\+ joelseph

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/tehjoelseph)

## Maladaze (Retired)
Can't hit jumps

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/infjager)

## Pyrowarfare (Retired)
A BeastSaber admin who wrote the majority of content for [How to Playtest](./how-to-testplay.md), [Mapping Anxiety](./mapping-anxiety.md),
and contibuted on various other pages. Be warned: you will be asked to talk about your feelings.  

**Roles:** Moderator, Mapping Support

[BeatSaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5e99c7df3f476a0006596cdf) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/pyrowarfare/)

Commit message:

updated mod list for new moderators (#361)
pink cute

wiki/about/moderators.md, after:

# Moderators
With a server so large, a lot of moderation is required to keep everything under control.
You can thank this team for keeping the streets clean.

## 24Kings
"Join the Qvolution, also Pink cute"

**Roles:** Moderator  

## Burrito
Ironically doesn't like burritos, thinks tacos are better (true facts)

**Roles:** Moderator, Support

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/BurritoSOFTWARE) | [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/burritosoftware) | [Tip](https://streamelements.com/burritosoft/tip)

## Chara_
crippling destiny addiction

**Roles:** Support, 3D Artists, Moderator

[Qosmetics Community](https://discord.gg/qosmetics) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/CharaHere) | [Twitter](https://twitter.com/ItsCharaHere)

## Eradawn
"Findus says hai"

**Roles:** Moderator, Support

## Hydrand
Camellia is SourPls

**Roles:** Mapper, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/hydrandvr)

## John
"Tired at all times"

**Roles:** Moderator

## Kuru
All they can say is that the R in Kuru stands for Rat

**Roles:** Moderator

## Nym
"i like the gaymes. Addicted to many, don't like any of them, send cat pics."

**Roles:** Moderator

## Olaf
Any stroopwafels?  

**Roles:** Moderator  

[Twitch](https://twitch.tv/olafstad)

## OneEyed
2 truths and a lie: Pink cute, CMB sentient, OneEyed has good spelling

**Roles:** Support, Moderator

## RangeValley
> My dad worked for years as an admin, but he got laid off when bots took over. He came home that night and told me we
> had to move into the van, since we couldn't afford rent anymore, then he beat the shit out of me with jumper cables.
> Shitposting should be legal.

**Roles:** Moderator

## Razor
Literally no clue what he's doing when it comes to coding, at all, but he can fix ploogin.

**Roles:** Support, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/sarpest_razor) | [Donate](https://streamelements.com/sarpest_razor/tip)

## Shad
"Every channel is just #pc-mod-support"

**Roles:** Moderator, Mapper, Support

[Maps](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7498cc5a672c850a45) | [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLiwd2iGUDl2kvw8FM2qwFQ)
| [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/shadlive)

## Zion
kinda vibing

**Roles:** Moderator  

## BeigeAnimal (Retired)
We had to whip this boy into a bit of shape but he's was one of the most effective moderators.
He's not really specialized in any field but he's willing to lend a helping **provided they ask in the right channel.**
Also hates sketchfab links.

**Roles:** Moderator, 3D Artists

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/beigeanimaltv) | [Paypal](https://paypal.me/beigeanimal)

## DeeJay (Retired)
Pepega

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/deejayvr)

## Guatapuri (Retired)
"Came for the game, Stayed for the hugs"

**Roles:** Mapper, Moderator

## 𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯 (Retired)
Poi!

**Roles:** 3D Artists, Support, Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/br3uker)

## joelseph (Retired)
\+ joelseph

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/tehjoelseph)

## Maladaze (Retired)
Can't hit jumps

**Roles:** Moderator

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/infjager)

## Pyrowarfare (Retired)
A BeastSaber admin who wrote the majority of content for [How to Playtest](./how-to-testplay.md), [Mapping Anxiety](./mapping-anxiety.md),
and contibuted on various other pages. Be warned: you will be asked to talk about your feelings.  

**Roles:** Moderator, Mapping Support

[BeatSaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5e99c7df3f476a0006596cdf) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/pyrowarfare/)
