wiki/about/supports.md, before:

# Supports
_The Support role is a symbol of thanks. Thanks for the thousands of messages and hundreds of hours spent helping people
sort out their mods, and for for building a knowledge of troubleshooting base through macros and the wiki. We don't typically
give this role out, but when we do it's because someone has gone above and beyond for the server._

## Alteran
Just your random geek.  With a strong affinity towards music, and a love for Stargate that goes unmatched.
Always happy to help if I have the ability.  
Addicted to BeatSaber.

**Roles:** Support

## boulders2000
> "even though his brain is a mess he knows his stuff (kinda)"
>
> something like that (but don't add something like that part, ok?)

**Roles:** Support

## ComputerElite
He makes programs to support people faster and some others for them to make all easier. (likes to eat BMBF Logs)

**Roles:** Support

[Github](https://github.com/ComputerElite/)

## Emma
You might know them for their spectacular platforms, or for more refined individuals: yeet sabers.

**Roles:** Support, 3D Artist

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/therealkleinba)

## Johnny0403
He likes playing Beat Saber. He also likes helping people fix their problems so they can play Beat Saber.

**Roles:** Support

## KnuckleDF
Answered one question. Then a few more. Now he's here.

**Roles:** Support

## KodenameKRAK
"Maybe in a couple years I could think of something to put here"

**Roles:** Support

## Kolezan
He'll teach you to fix your mods and your terribly off-beat first map. We've all been there.

**Roles:** Support, Mapping Support, Mapper

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/kolezan) | [Donate](https://paypal.me/kolezan)

## Luna
She's often forgetful, but happy to help

**Roles:** Support

## male
is too uncreative to think of a bio

**Roles:** Support

## Nuggo
A fine nugget... A tasty nugget

**Roles:** Support

## Pespiri
He'll give me his bio later today, or so he says.

**Roles:** Support, Modder

[GitHub](https://github.com/pespiri)

## Radevirot
This guy came out of nowhere and started helping in support saying it was some kind of addiction, what a loon.

**Roles:** Support

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Radevirot) | [Donate](paypal.me/Radevirot)

## Raz0rBeam
Just your average .saber connoisseur with a knowledge of troubleshooting

**Roles:** Support

[Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/Raz0rBeam) | [GitHub](https://www.github.com/Raz0rBeam)

## Rex
I really like to help people. Yeah that's all.

**Roles:** Support

## Sands
He has no life and he's pretty dumb but he can help with your bmbf and that's all that matters right?

**Roles:** Support

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCiZEAQOgVABYs1-u3psPezg)

## Simme63
"Coke Head"

**Roles:** Support

## Squares
SirSpam likes steak between two slices of bread!

**Roles:** Support

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaQ7PLj4AqGHZnqQVjc_XBQ)

## Toblersto
I decided I wanted to help one day, and have been slightly addicted ever since.

**Roles:** Support

## X
🐸 🎉 _I don't know what to put here_

**Roles:** Support

## Channel Monitor Bot
The bot that holds it all together.
Created by Megalon, recreated by lolPants, and personified by Rolo!

[Merch!](https://www.redbubble.com/people/megalon-gaming/portfolio)

## Meivyn (Retired)

A very helpful individual

---

::: tip See Also
**3D Artists:** [RedBrumbler](./3d-artists.md#redbrumbler)  
**Modders:** [Kyle1413](./modders.md#kyle1413) | [Sirspam](./modders.md#sirspam) | [rui2015](./moderators.md#rui2015)  
**Moderators:** [Razor](./moderators.md#razor) | [𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯](./moderators.md#jennifer-retired)
  | [Chara_](./moderators.md#chara-retired) | [Burrito](./moderators.md#burrito)
  | [OneEyed](./moderators.md#oneeyed-retired) | [Storm](./moderators.md#storm)  
**Staff:** [Assistant](./staff.md#assistant-retired) | [Eradawn](./staff.md#eradawn) | [Klouder](./staff.md#klouder-retired)
| [Megalon](./staff.md#megalon) | [Pink](./staff.md#pink) | [Steven](./staff.md#steven-🎀) | [williums](./staff.md#williums)
| [Melopod ƸӜƷ](./staff.md#melopod-ƹжʒ)
:::

Commit message:

Add my support thing, only took 6 months
uhhhh just read the changes

wiki/about/supports.md, after:

# Supports
_The Support role is a symbol of thanks. Thanks for the thousands of messages and hundreds of hours spent helping people
sort out their mods, and for for building a knowledge of troubleshooting base through macros and the wiki. We don't typically
give this role out, but when we do it's because someone has gone above and beyond for the server._

## oli
I broke my feet the day before I got support, its not related *I think*

**Roles:** Support 

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@gikmo8246) | [GitHub](https://github.com/oli-ctrl)


## Alteran
Just your random geek.  With a strong affinity towards music, and a love for Stargate that goes unmatched.
Always happy to help if I have the ability.  
Addicted to BeatSaber.

**Roles:** Support

## boulders2000
> "even though his brain is a mess he knows his stuff (kinda)"
>
> something like that (but don't add something like that part, ok?)

**Roles:** Support

## ComputerElite
He makes programs to support people faster and some others for them to make all easier. (likes to eat BMBF Logs)

**Roles:** Support

[Github](https://github.com/ComputerElite/)

## Emma
You might know them for their spectacular platforms, or for more refined individuals: yeet sabers.

**Roles:** Support, 3D Artist

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/therealkleinba)

## Johnny0403
He likes playing Beat Saber. He also likes helping people fix their problems so they can play Beat Saber.

**Roles:** Support

## KnuckleDF
Answered one question. Then a few more. Now he's here.

**Roles:** Support

## KodenameKRAK
"Maybe in a couple years I could think of something to put here"

**Roles:** Support

## Kolezan
He'll teach you to fix your mods and your terribly off-beat first map. We've all been there.

**Roles:** Support, Mapping Support, Mapper

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/kolezan) | [Donate](https://paypal.me/kolezan)

## Luna
She's often forgetful, but happy to help

**Roles:** Support

## male
is too uncreative to think of a bio

**Roles:** Support

## Nuggo
A fine nugget... A tasty nugget

**Roles:** Support

## Pespiri
He'll give me his bio later today, or so he says.

**Roles:** Support, Modder

[GitHub](https://github.com/pespiri)

## Radevirot
This guy came out of nowhere and started helping in support saying it was some kind of addiction, what a loon.

**Roles:** Support

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Radevirot) | [Donate](paypal.me/Radevirot)

## Raz0rBeam
Just your average .saber connoisseur with a knowledge of troubleshooting

**Roles:** Support

[Twitter](https://www.twitter.com/Raz0rBeam) | [GitHub](https://www.github.com/Raz0rBeam)

## Rex
I really like to help people. Yeah that's all.

**Roles:** Support

## Sands
He has no life and he's pretty dumb but he can help with your bmbf and that's all that matters right?

**Roles:** Support

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCiZEAQOgVABYs1-u3psPezg)

## Simme63
"Coke Head"

**Roles:** Support

## Squares
SirSpam likes steak between two slices of bread!

**Roles:** Support

[YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaQ7PLj4AqGHZnqQVjc_XBQ)

## Toblersto
I decided I wanted to help one day, and have been slightly addicted ever since.

**Roles:** Support

## X
🐸 🎉 _I don't know what to put here_

**Roles:** Support

## Channel Monitor Bot
The bot that holds it all together.
Created by Megalon, recreated by lolPants, and personified by Rolo!

[Merch!](https://www.redbubble.com/people/megalon-gaming/portfolio)

## Meivyn (Retired)

A very helpful individual

---

::: tip See Also
**3D Artists:** [RedBrumbler](./3d-artists.md#redbrumbler)  
**Modders:** [Kyle1413](./modders.md#kyle1413) | [Sirspam](./modders.md#sirspam) | [rui2015](./moderators.md#rui2015)  
**Moderators:** [Razor](./moderators.md#razor) | [𝔍𝔢𝔫𝔫𝔦𝔣𝔢𝔯](./moderators.md#jennifer-retired)
  | [Chara_](./moderators.md#chara-retired) | [Burrito](./moderators.md#burrito)
  | [OneEyed](./moderators.md#oneeyed-retired) | [Storm](./moderators.md#storm)  
**Staff:** [Assistant](./staff.md#assistant-retired) | [Eradawn](./staff.md#eradawn) | [Klouder](./staff.md#klouder-retired)
| [Megalon](./staff.md#megalon) | [Pink](./staff.md#pink) | [Steven](./staff.md#steven-🎀) | [williums](./staff.md#williums)
| [Melopod ƸӜƷ](./staff.md#melopod-ƹжʒ)
:::
