wiki/mapping/editor-keybinds.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# Editor Keybinds
There are usually multiple ways to accomplish the same action, however, keyboard shortcuts are the most efficient.

::: tip NOTE
These are the default keybinds which may change at any time. Some editors may allow you to change the keybinds.
:::

If this format doesn't work for you, this [google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iZLs80IH-KXeXE3NcNQA5kcc591XgAT-BUK6vZXcPAs/edit?usp=sharing), which this wiki page is based off of, is also available but may be out of date.

## General Keybinds
### Basic
|                       |  Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |     Beat Mapper     |         ChroMapper        |
|-----------------------|:-------------------------:|:-------------------:|:-------------------------:|
|           Move camera | Right Click+W/A/S/D/Mouse | Shift+W/A/S/D/Mouse | Right Click+W/A/S/D/Mouse |
|    Set note direction |         W/A/S/D/F         |      W/A/S/D/F      |         W/A/S/D/F         |
| Change edit precision |        Ctrl+Scroll        |     Ctrl+Scroll     |        Ctrl+Scroll        |
|              Red note |             1             |          1          |             1             |
|             Blue note |             2             |          2          |             2             |
|                  Bomb |             3             |          3          |             3             |
|                  Wall |             4             |          4          |             4             |
|              Save map |           Ctrl+S          |   N/A (Autosaves)   |           Ctrl+S          |

### Element Selection
|                   | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |    Beat Mapper   |                ChroMapper               |
|-------------------|:------------------------:|:----------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
|       Select item |             Shift+LClick |     Shift+LClick |                            Shift+LClick |
| Select many items |     Ctrl+LClick ⇒ Scroll | Q ⇒ Fill in info | Ctrl/Alt+LClick or Ctrl+LClick ⇒ Scroll |
|          Deselect |         Ctrl+A or Ctrl+D |           Ctrl+A |                                  Ctrl+A |

### Edit Notes
|                      |         Mediocre Map Assistant 2         |  Beat Mapper |        ChroMapper       |
|----------------------|:----------------------------------------:|:------------:|:-----------------------:|
|                  Cut |                                   Ctrl+X |       Ctrl+X |                  Ctrl+X |
|                 Copy |                                   Ctrl+C |       Ctrl+C |                  Ctrl+C |
|                Paste |                                   Ctrl+V |       Ctrl+V |                  Ctrl+V |
|                 Undo |                                   Ctrl+Z |       Ctrl+Z |                  Ctrl+Z |
|                 Redo |                             Ctrl+Shift+Z | Ctrl+Shift+Z |  Ctrl+Shift+Z or Ctrl+Y |
|         Quick Delete |                       Shift+Middle Mouse |  Right Click |      Shift+Middle Mouse |
|            Move Note | Alt+Drag or Select ⇒ Shift+Up/Down Arrow |              | Ctrl+Arrows or Alt+Drag |
|         Note Actions |                                          |   Alt+LClick |                         |
|     Change Direction |                    Alt+W/A/S/D over Note |              | Alt+Scroll Wheel over Note |
|           Swap Color |                             Middle Mouse | Middle Mouse |            Middle Mouse |

### Travel
|               | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |      ChroMapper      |
|---------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:--------------------:|
|  Jump to beat |                          |           J |                      |
|      Bookmark |                        B |             |                    B |
| Jump to Bookmark | Previous: `[` Next: `]` |             | Click on UI Bookmark |
|  Jump to Item |          Alt+Shift+Click |             |                      |

### Useful Tricks
|                        | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|------------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
|    Custom event window |                          |             |     Ctrl+T |
| Swap precision palette |                        X |             |            |
|     Open error checker | Shift+Tab                |             |            |
|           Reset camera |                Backspace |   Backspace |            |

### Mapping Extensions
|                   | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |       ChroMapper       |
|-------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------------------:|
| Swap to fake wall |         Ctrl+F over wall |             | Middle Click over Wall |
|       Rotate note |     Alt+Scroll over note |             |   Alt+Scroll over note |

### Advanced
|                | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|----------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
|  In-place edit |         Alt+ Right mouse |             |            |
| Edit BPM block | Alt+Click over BPM block |             |            |

## Lighting Keybinds
### Basic
|                       | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |       Beat Mapper       |      ChroMapper     |
|-----------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------:|
| Open Lighting Menu    |                      Tab | "Events" Sidebar Button |                 Tab |
|                    On |                        W |                       1 |                   W |
|                 Flash |                        A |                       3 |                   A |
|                  Fade |                        S |                       4 |                   D |
|                   Off |                        D |                       2 |                   S |
|                  Edit |                          |                       A |                     |

See [General Keybinds: Basic](#basic) for changing edit precision and [Element Selection](#element-selection) on how to select items.

### Travel
|              | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|--------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
| Jump to beat |                          |           J |            |

### Advanced Lighting
|                      |   Mediocre Map Assistant 2  | Beat Mapper |          ChroMapper         |
|----------------------|:---------------------------:|:-----------:|:---------------------------:|
|               Strobe |                     W/A/D+S |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |
|                 Loop |                             |           L |                             |
|   Change laser speed | Alt+Scroll over Laser Speed |             | Alt+Scroll over Laser Speed |
|  Color strobe toggle |                          F2 |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |
| No-off strobe toggle |                          F3 |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |

### Chroma
|                 | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |        ChroMapper        |
|-----------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:------------------------:|
|    Magenta note |                        Q |             |                          |
|      Green note |                        E |             |                          |
|       Gray note |                        R |             |                          |
| Open RGB colors |                  Shift+C |             |                          |
|      Save color |      Right Click palette |             | Left Click "+" Button    |
|       Use color |       Left Click palette |             |       Left Click Palette |
|    Remove color |                          |             | Shift+Left Click Palette |

## Advanced
### ChroMapper
#### Strobe Generator
An advanced tool that allows you to easily generate a strobe or Chroma gradient between two (or more) selected endpoints. It allows you to set what two event types you want to strobe, as well as the two event types you wish to strobe between. You can control the strobe interval, whether or not chroma gradients can form, and much more.  
![Strobe Generator Window](./images/cm_strobeGenerator.png)

#### Node Editor
An advanced tool that allows you to view and edit a selected object as it will appear in the exported map data file. You can manually edit each and every map object, allowing for a degree of control no other editor has. Essentially an easier way to JSON edit your map.  
![Node Editor Window](./images/cm_nodeEditor.png)

## Credits
Content in this section was authored by [The Good Boi](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#the-good-boi), [Caeden117](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#caeden117), and [Bloodcloak](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#bloodcloak). Idea by [Helen Carnate](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#helen-carnate).

Commit message:

Mapping page updates (#177)
* Mapping changes

Added 'mapping anxiety' page
Edited Pyrowarfare
Edited mapping homepage to add mapping anxiety blurb
Mapping anxiety

* Mapping page updates

* Added wiki requests:
-- Typo in mapping-anxiety
-- Beatmapper editor keybinds
-- Windows Spatial error in how-to-testplay
*Added parity checker to intermediate-mapping 
*Mentioned grip under parity in basic-mapping

* Grammar/Rephrase addition in basic, merge new warn in editor keybinds

Co-authored-by: Bloodcloak <59000966+bloodcloak-beatsaber@users.noreply.github.com>

wiki/mapping/editor-keybinds.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# Editor Keybinds
There are usually multiple ways to accomplish the same action, however, keyboard shortcuts are the most efficient.

::: warning NOTE
* These are the default keybinds which may change at any time. Some editors may also allow you to change the keybinds. 

* You can find more info on Beatmapper's keybinds [here](https://beatmapper.app/docs/keyboard-shortcuts). There are some actions that are very specific to Beatmapper that may not be noted on this page. 
:::

If this format doesn't work for you, this [google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iZLs80IH-KXeXE3NcNQA5kcc591XgAT-BUK6vZXcPAs/edit?usp=sharing), which this wiki page is based off of, is also available but may be out of date.

## General Keybinds
### Basic
|                       |  Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |     Beat Mapper     |         ChroMapper        |
|-----------------------|:-------------------------:|:-------------------:|:-------------------------:|
|           Move camera | Right Click+W/A/S/D/Mouse | Shift+W/A/S/D/Mouse | Right Click+W/A/S/D/Mouse |
|    Set note direction |         W/A/S/D/F         |      W/A/S/D/F      |         W/A/S/D/F         |
| Change edit precision |        Ctrl+Scroll        |     Ctrl+Scroll     |        Ctrl+Scroll        |
|              Red note |             1            |          1   or R       |             1             |
|             Blue note |             2             |          2   or B       |             2             |
|                  Bomb |             3             |          3          |             3             |
|                  Wall |             4             |          4          |             4             |
|              Save map |           Ctrl+S          |   N/A (Autosaves)   |           Ctrl+S          |

### Element Selection
|                   | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |    Beat Mapper   |                ChroMapper               |
|-------------------|:------------------------:|:----------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
|       Select item |             Shift+LClick |     LClick |                            Shift+LClick |
| Select many items |     Ctrl+LClick ⇒ Scroll | Q ⇒ Fill in info | Ctrl/Alt+LClick or Ctrl+LClick ⇒ Scroll |
|          Deselect |         Ctrl+A or Ctrl+D |           LClick |                                  Ctrl+A |

### Edit Notes
|                      |         Mediocre Map Assistant 2         |  Beat Mapper |        ChroMapper       |
|----------------------|:----------------------------------------:|:------------:|:-----------------------:|
|                  Cut |                                   Ctrl+X |       Ctrl+X |                  Ctrl+X |
|                 Copy |                                   Ctrl+C |       Ctrl+C |                  Ctrl+C |
|                Paste |                                   Ctrl+V |       Ctrl+V |                  Ctrl+V |
|                 Undo |                                   Ctrl+Z |       Ctrl+Z |                  Ctrl+Z |
|                 Redo |                             Ctrl+Shift+Z | Ctrl+Shift+Z |  Ctrl+Shift+Z or Ctrl+Y |
|         Quick Delete |                       Shift+Middle Mouse |  Right Click |      Shift+Middle Mouse |
|            Move Note | Alt+Drag or Select ⇒ Shift+Up/Down Arrow |              | Ctrl+Arrows or Alt+Drag |
|         Note Actions |                                          |   Alt+LClick |                         |
|     Change Direction |                    Alt+W/A/S/D over Note |              | Alt+Scroll Wheel over Note |
|           Swap Color |                             Middle Mouse | Middle Mouse |            Middle Mouse |

### Travel
|               | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |      ChroMapper      |
|---------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:--------------------:|
|  Jump to beat |                          |           J |                      |
|      Bookmark |                        B |             |                    B |
| Jump to Bookmark | Previous: `[` Next: `]` |             | Click on UI Bookmark |
|  Jump to Item |          Alt+Shift+Click |             |                      |

### Useful Tricks
|                        | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|------------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
|    Custom event window |                          |             |     Ctrl+T |
| Swap precision palette |                        X |             |            |
|     Open error checker | Shift+Tab                |             |            |
|           Reset camera |                Backspace |   Backspace |            |

### Mapping Extensions
|                   | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |       ChroMapper       |
|-------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------------------:|
| Swap to fake wall |         Ctrl+F over wall |             | Middle Click over Wall |
|       Rotate note |     Alt+Scroll over note |             |   Alt+Scroll over note |

### Advanced
|                | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|----------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
|  In-place edit |         Alt+ Right mouse |             |            |
| Edit BPM block | Alt+Click over BPM block |             |            |

## Lighting Keybinds
### Basic
|                       | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 |       Beat Mapper       |      ChroMapper     |
|-----------------------|:------------------------:|:-----------------------:|:-------------------:|
| Open Lighting Menu    |                      Tab | "Events" Sidebar Button |                 Tab |
|                    On |                        W |                       1 |                   W |
|                 Flash |                        A |                       3 |                   A |
|                  Fade |                        S |                       4 |                   D |
|                   Off |                        D |                       2 |                   S |
|                  Edit |                          |                       A |                     |

See [General Keybinds: Basic](#basic) for changing edit precision and [Element Selection](#element-selection) on how to select items.

### Travel
|              | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper | ChroMapper |
|--------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:----------:|
| Jump to beat |                          |           J |            |

### Advanced Lighting
|                      |   Mediocre Map Assistant 2  | Beat Mapper |          ChroMapper         |
|----------------------|:---------------------------:|:-----------:|:---------------------------:|
|               Strobe |                     W/A/D+S |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |
|                 Loop |                             |           L |                             |
|   Change laser speed | Alt+Scroll over Laser Speed |             | Alt+Scroll over Laser Speed |
|  Color strobe toggle |                          F2 |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |
| No-off strobe toggle |                          F3 |             | See [Strobe Generator](#strobe-generator) |

### Chroma
|                 | Mediocre Map Assistant 2 | Beat Mapper |        ChroMapper        |
|-----------------|:------------------------:|:-----------:|:------------------------:|
|    Magenta note |                        Q |             |                          |
|      Green note |                        E |             |                          |
|       Gray note |                        R |             |                          |
| Open RGB colors |                  Shift+C |             |                          |
|      Save color |      Right Click palette |             | Left Click "+" Button    |
|       Use color |       Left Click palette |             |       Left Click Palette |
|    Remove color |                          |             | Shift+Left Click Palette |

## Advanced
### ChroMapper
#### Strobe Generator
An advanced tool that allows you to easily generate a strobe or Chroma gradient between two (or more) selected endpoints. It allows you to set what two event types you want to strobe, as well as the two event types you wish to strobe between. You can control the strobe interval, whether or not chroma gradients can form, and much more.  
![Strobe Generator Window](./images/cm_strobeGenerator.png)

#### Node Editor
An advanced tool that allows you to view and edit a selected object as it will appear in the exported map data file. You can manually edit each and every map object, allowing for a degree of control no other editor has. Essentially an easier way to JSON edit your map.  
![Node Editor Window](./images/cm_nodeEditor.png)

## Credits
Content in this section was authored by [The Good Boi](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#the-good-boi), [Caeden117](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#caeden117), and [Bloodcloak](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#bloodcloak). Idea by [Helen Carnate](/mapping/mapping-credits.html#helen-carnate).
