wiki/mapping/mapping-credits.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
---
# Mapping Resources Contributors

Over *thirty* different mapping guides and tutorials have been combined into this wiki so that it can be maintained by the community as a whole. Many many **MANY** thanks to the mappers who blazed this trail and contributed content. Checkout their maps and consider supporting them!

> Missed you? Want to update your bio? [Let us know!](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfVS6_EMZOujxthR3lTa2eEwHg5C3x1INouLgnbHhBDpv1M5A/viewform)

## Awfulnaut 
Wrote the *Beat Saber Custom Mapping Best Practices for Block Placement* guide which the majority of [Basic Mapping: Pattern Best Practices](/mapping/basic-mapping.html#pattern-best-practices) was based on.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84edac) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/awfulnaut/)

## BennyDaBeast
An awesome dance mapper who created a [video tutorial series](https://bsaber.com/benny-custom-mapping/) on how to map for those who learn better visually.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84e98d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/bennydabeast/)

## Bloodcloak
Really into Japanese and EDM music with the occasional K-pop song and loves creating dance style maps.  
Helps maintain and improve the resources.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c8551d3) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/bloodcloak/) | [Donate](https://www.paypal.me/bloodcloak) | [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/bloodcloak)

## Caeden117
Modder, Moderator, Mapper, EditorMaster... Caeden does it all. As the primary dev on the ChroMapper project (which natively supports 360) he contributed a TON for 360&deg;/90&deg; best practices.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ee26) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/caeden117/) | [Donate](https://ko-fi.com/Caeden117)  

## Checkthepan
Some nerd who spends more time writing about mapping than actually doing it. Adapted the theory of parity and wrote a guide on how it applies in Beat Saber mapping as well as contributing to 360&deg;/90&deg; best practices.   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84f3d5) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/checkthepan/)

## CyanSnow
A furry on Mondays and Wednesdays, makes awesome maps with various gimmicks. Verified information on a lot of things.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c8543ac) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/cyansnow/)

## Freeek
Works at Beat Games as an Official Mapper. Created one of the first [mapping tutorial series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYeZR6d3zDPgDgWogOwMteL-5SQWAE14b) and  drops by in `#mapping-discussion` from time to time.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84e8ad) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/freeek/)

## The Good Boi
Helped organize a convenient spreadsheet that contains all of the controls for the community editors.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c85433c) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/thegoodboi/)

## Helen Carnate
The plushie queen who organized the majority of these resources. The guides wouldn't be like they are today without them!  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8553d2) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/helencarnate/) | [Etsy Shop](https://www.etsy.com/shop/HelenCarnateDesigns)

## Hexagonial
Wrote a guide on forbidden patterns in E+ maps that was integrated into the [Basic Mapping: Gauging Difficulty & Down-Mapping](/mapping/basic-mapping.html#gauging-difficulty-down-mapping) section. Also is a ranking team member!  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84f2fb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/hexagonial/)

## Kival Evan
Contributed to the [360&deg;/90&deg; best practices](/mapping/extended-mapping.html#360-90) thanks to extensive experimentation with the new mode.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855af3) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/kivalevan/)

## Kolezan
Full Spread and Single Saber Maps galore.  
Authored content in [Basic Audio Setup](/mapping/basic-audio.md) and [Advanced Audio Editing](/mapping/advanced-audio.md) with [Nik](#nik-n3tman) and [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md) with [LittleAsi](#littleasi).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84fcbb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/kolezan/)

## LittleAsi
A lighting mentor and member of Funrankable, they authored a lot of content to the lighting resources with [Kolezan](#kolezan).   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c853c2d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/littleasi/) | [Funrankable](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8561ac)

## Megalon
Co-creator of the BSMG as well as Channel Monitor Bot. He's known for his creative stream overlays and amazing ASMR voice. Created a video tutorial on using the [Official Editor](/mapping/#official-editor) and manages the wiki repository.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855407) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/megalon/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/megalon) | [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/megalonttv) | [Donate](https://ko-fi.com/megalon)

## ManDynasty
Wrote various guides on lighting that was integrated into [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ffaa) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/mandynasty/)

## Nik/n3tman
Makes playlists and dabbles in audio editing. Authored content in [Basic Audio Setup](/mapping/basic-audio.md) and [Advanced Audio Editing](/mapping/advanced-audio.md) with [Kolezan](#kolezan).  
[BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/n3tman/)

## Puds
Wrote *Beginner's Lighting Guideline*, a guide that was integrated into [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c85380d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/puds/)

## Ris
Wrote *Warping Variable BPM Songs with Reaper* based off of a method by **Heisenberg_IRL** that was integrated into [Advanced Audio Editing: Variable BPM](/mapping/advanced-audio.html#variable-bpm).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c8535df) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/ris/)

## Ryger
Created a tutorial video on syncing songs using [Arrow Vortex](/mapping/basic-audio.html#tool-assisted-bpm-calculation).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855a42) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/ryger/) | [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV1H-gl55Q4WgrInng9szzg)

## Scrappy
Wrote the original mapping extensions walls guide.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c851beb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/scrappy/)

## Silent Caay
Wrote the original "Quick Start Guide" on mapping on BeastSaber.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ed71) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/silentcaay/)

## Skyler Wallace
Managed the first anniversary pack and a founder of Bloq Busters. Skyler makes it a point to do full spread mapping.  
Authored *The Ultimate Beat Saber Mapping Guide* which has been integrated across many of the resources.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84ea67) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/skylerwallace/)

## Spooky Ghost
Creator of beatwalls, a command line tool to easily create awesome Mapping Extensions walls. Contributed content in [Extended Mapping: Wall Mapping](/mapping/extended-mapping.html#wall-mapping).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8561a5) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/spookyghost/) | [Github](https://github.com/spookyGh0st)

## Sykes
Wrote guides on what "swing" beat is, how the "shuffle" parameter would make mapping easier, and down-mapping lower difficulties.   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c854602) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/sykes19/)

## Uninstaller
Ranking team member that authored a guide on modding maps for ranked.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c85248e) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/uninstaller/)

Commit message:

General Update and Soft Launch Intermediate Mapping
Extended Mapping:
- Add example paths to the ME setup steps

Intermediate Mapping:
- Add content from the collab google doc. Images still missing and overall is still subject to change.

Mapping Credits:
- Add DarkGrisen for intermediate mapping contributions
- Modify CyanSnow's entry to include wall mapping info

MMA2:
- adjust formatting of example path for no game installed
- Fix broken links in the Whole Map Settings section

Map Home: 
- Add noodleLister tool for making playlists
- Link Intermediate Mapping as soft launch
- Update Lolighter link to github
- Linked 3rd party testing section in playtesting opening paragraph
- Add note on file name issues when trying to upload map to BMBF for playstesting
- Move warning on WIPs and add do not upload autogenerated maps to beatsaver

wiki/mapping/mapping-credits.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---
# Mapping Resources Contributors

Over *thirty* different mapping guides and tutorials have been combined into this wiki so that it can be maintained by the community as a whole. Many many **MANY** thanks to the mappers who blazed this trail and contributed content. Checkout their maps and consider supporting them!

> Missed you? Want to update your bio? [Let us know!](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfVS6_EMZOujxthR3lTa2eEwHg5C3x1INouLgnbHhBDpv1M5A/viewform)

## Awfulnaut 
Wrote the *Beat Saber Custom Mapping Best Practices for Block Placement* guide which the majority of [Basic Mapping: Pattern Best Practices](/mapping/basic-mapping.html#pattern-best-practices) was based on.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84edac) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/awfulnaut/)

## BennyDaBeast
An awesome dance mapper who created a [video tutorial series](https://bsaber.com/benny-custom-mapping/) on how to map for those who learn better visually.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84e98d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/bennydabeast/)

## Bloodcloak
Really into Japanese and EDM music with the occasional K-pop song and loves creating dance style maps.  
Helps maintain and improve the resources.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c8551d3) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/bloodcloak/) | [Donate](https://www.paypal.me/bloodcloak) | [Ko-Fi](https://ko-fi.com/bloodcloak)

## Caeden117
Modder, Moderator, Mapper, EditorMaster... Caeden does it all. As the primary dev on the ChroMapper project (which natively supports 360) he contributed a TON for 360&deg;/90&deg; best practices.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ee26) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/caeden117/) | [Donate](https://ko-fi.com/Caeden117)  

## Checkthepan
Some nerd who spends more time writing about mapping than actually doing it. Adapted the theory of parity and wrote a guide on how it applies in Beat Saber mapping as well as contributing to 360&deg;/90&deg; best practices.   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84f3d5) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/checkthepan/)

## CyanSnow
A furry on Mondays and Wednesdays, makes awesome maps with various gimmicks. Verified information on a lot of things and contributed to the walls section in Intermediate Mapping!  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c8543ac) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/cyansnow/)

## DarkGrisen
Contributed to the Intermediate Mapping page.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84fe44) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/darkgrisen/)

## Freeek
Works at Beat Games as an Official Mapper. Created one of the first [mapping tutorial series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYeZR6d3zDPgDgWogOwMteL-5SQWAE14b) and  drops by in `#mapping-discussion` from time to time.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84e8ad) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/freeek/)

## The Good Boi
Helped organize a convenient spreadsheet that contains all of the controls for the community editors.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c85433c) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/thegoodboi/)

## Helen Carnate
The plushie queen who organized the majority of these resources. The guides wouldn't be like they are today without them!  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8553d2) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/helencarnate/) | [Etsy Shop](https://www.etsy.com/shop/HelenCarnateDesigns)

## Hexagonial
Wrote a guide on forbidden patterns in E+ maps that was integrated into the [Basic Mapping: Gauging Difficulty & Down-Mapping](/mapping/basic-mapping.html#gauging-difficulty-down-mapping) section. Also is a ranking team member!  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84f2fb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/hexagonial/)

## Kival Evan
Contributed to the [360&deg;/90&deg; best practices](/mapping/extended-mapping.html#360-90) thanks to extensive experimentation with the new mode.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855af3) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/kivalevan/)

## Kolezan
Full Spread and Single Saber Maps galore.  
Authored content in [Basic Audio Setup](/mapping/basic-audio.md) and [Advanced Audio Editing](/mapping/advanced-audio.md) with [Nik](#nik-n3tman) and [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md) with [LittleAsi](#littleasi).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84fcbb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/kolezan/)

## LittleAsi
A lighting mentor and member of Funrankable, they authored a lot of content to the lighting resources with [Kolezan](#kolezan).   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c853c2d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/littleasi/) | [Funrankable](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8561ac)

## Megalon
Co-creator of the BSMG as well as Channel Monitor Bot. He's known for his creative stream overlays and amazing ASMR voice. Created a video tutorial on using the [Official Editor](/mapping/#official-editor) and manages the wiki repository.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855407) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/megalon/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/megalon) | [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/megalonttv) | [Donate](https://ko-fi.com/megalon)

## ManDynasty
Wrote various guides on lighting that was integrated into [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ffaa) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/mandynasty/)

## Nik/n3tman
Makes playlists and dabbles in audio editing. Authored content in [Basic Audio Setup](/mapping/basic-audio.md) and [Advanced Audio Editing](/mapping/advanced-audio.md) with [Kolezan](#kolezan).  
[BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/n3tman/)

## Puds
Wrote *Beginner's Lighting Guideline*, a guide that was integrated into [Basic Lighting](/mapping/basic-lighting.md).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c85380d) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/puds/)

## Ris
Wrote *Warping Variable BPM Songs with Reaper* based off of a method by **Heisenberg_IRL** that was integrated into [Advanced Audio Editing: Variable BPM](/mapping/advanced-audio.html#variable-bpm).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c8535df) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/ris/)

## Ryger
Created a tutorial video on syncing songs using [Arrow Vortex](/mapping/basic-audio.html#tool-assisted-bpm-calculation).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c855a42) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/ryger/) | [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV1H-gl55Q4WgrInng9szzg)

## Scrappy
Wrote the original mapping extensions walls guide.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c851beb) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/scrappy/)

## Silent Caay
Wrote the original "Quick Start Guide" on mapping on BeastSaber.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7398cc5a672c84ed71) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/silentcaay/)

## Skyler Wallace
Managed the first anniversary pack and a founder of Bloq Busters. Skyler makes it a point to do full spread mapping.  
Authored *The Ultimate Beat Saber Mapping Guide* which has been integrated across many of the resources.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7298cc5a672c84ea67) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/skylerwallace/)

## Spooky Ghost
Creator of beatwalls, a command line tool to easily create awesome Mapping Extensions walls. Contributed content in [Extended Mapping: Wall Mapping](/mapping/extended-mapping.html#wall-mapping).  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7798cc5a672c8561a5) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/spookyghost/) | [Github](https://github.com/spookyGh0st)

## Sykes
Wrote guides on what "swing" beat is, how the "shuffle" parameter would make mapping easier, and down-mapping lower difficulties.   
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7698cc5a672c854602) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/sykes19/)

## Uninstaller
Ranking team member that authored a guide on modding maps for ranked.  
[Beatsaver](https://beatsaver.com/uploader/5cff0b7598cc5a672c85248e) | [BeastSaber](https://bsaber.com/members/uninstaller/)
